Bavaria
MarM aNde
This small fortified town guards a wooden bridge across the 
Garonne into Gascony.
r oquetaillade
A royal motte and bailey castle.
Duchy of Limousin
Rulers: Duke Robert the Generous (765–778); Duke 
Raymond of Bergerac (779–799); Duke Fulco of Rouergues 
(800–816).
Regional Modifiers: The inhabitants of this rural region 
are known for their imperturbable calm and peacefulness. They 
gain +1d3 on Modest and Merciful.
Places of Interest
a iXe -sur -v ieNNe  
The duke lives in a stone castle on a small hill along the 
Vienne River some six miles to the east of Limoges.
a NgoulêMe  
A small cathedral town where the Roman road to Bordeaux 
crosses the river Charente.
l iM oges  
The ancient Roman home town of the Saints Eloi and 
Martial, who are both venerated at the local cathedral. The town 
is guarded by a wooden castle.
PérigueuX  
A walled town along the Isle River with a great round 
Roman stone tower.
s aiNt  y rieiX  
A monastery founded by Saint Aredius.
s oligNac  
This abandoned monastery, founded by Saint Eloi, is re -
built by Charlemagne.
Duchy of Poitou
Rulers: Duke Doon of Poitiers (762–773); Duke Fulco 
(774–778), Duke Abbo (778–811), Duke Reginald the 
Rorgonid (811–814).
Regional Modifiers: The people of Poitou, a land criss -
crossed by smalls rivers and marshes, are generally patient and 
taciturn, or even dull. They get +1d3 to Chaste, Lazy, and 
Prudent.
Places of Interest
g rao N
A wooden fortress on the road between Nantes and La 
Rochelle.
l a  r ocHelle  
An important walled harbor town with a wooden castle 
and a lighthouse.
l usigNaN  
A wooden castle on the road from Poitiers to La Rochelle.
Niort  
A small trading town along the River Sevre, defended by a 
wooden fortress.
NoirM outier
This fortified Benedictine monastery is destroyed by the 
Bretons in 732, but is rebuilt by King Louis in 804. It is situated 
on an island before the Poitevin coast.
PoiteviN  MarsH
North of La Rochelle extends a vast and dangerous marsh 
with a myriad of small canals which can be crossed on flat barges. 
It is infested not only by brigands, but also — some say — by 
faerie creatures.
Poitiers
A walled city with aqueducts, a great market hall with an 
ancient dolmen, a cathedral and an abbey dedicated to Saint 
Hilaire. The duke lives in a medium stone castle.
t Houars
A medium wooden stronghold near a small river on the 
frontier with Anjou.
Bavaria
C
ulture: Frankish.
Rulers: Duke T assilo III (748–788); Duke Gerold 
(789–799); Duke Adalbert (800–818). From 768 to 771 
this area is nominally under the rule of King Carloman.
Regional Modifiers: Thanks to their well-preserved 
Roman roots, the Bavarians are a refined but suspicious sort of 
people. They are at –1d3 to T rusting and Love [Charlemagne], 
but gain +1d3 in Courtesy, Dancing, Eloquence, Play 
Instruments and Singing.
Territory
The boundaries of the duchy roughly correspond to the re-
gion around the upper Danube, bordered on the north by the 
immense Bohemian Forest, in the west by the Lech River, in the 
south by the Alps and in the east by the Ems.
The ruling Bavarian family is the Agilolfings. Swanhilde, 
the daughter of T assilo II, was the second wife of Charles Martel. 
The current Duke T assilo III considers himself as an indepen -
dent magnate and often acts like one. However, the law code 
formally states that the Duke of Bavaria “must be confirmed by 
the Frankish king, ” and must pay him an annual tribute of 30 
warhorses. This is why the Bavarians have relatively little cavalry.
==================== PAGE 281 ====================
Chapter Fourteen: Frankland
280
Places of Interest
b o HeMiaN  f orest
This primeval mountain forest of mostly pine trees is al -
most completely uninhabited and very cold in winter.
b rauNsberg  (r ocHebruNe )
A stone castle near the River Inn, belonging to Duke 
Naymo.
b reNNer  Pass
A high mountain pass across the Alps following the Inn 
River, which links Bavaria to Lombardy. It can be used in sum -
mer and its entrance is defended by a wooden fortress at Wilten.
e icHstätt
A small river town on the Danube near the Alemannian 
border, defended by a wooden castle.
f reisiNg
A small town on the river Isar, on the spot where a shrine 
was raised by Saint Boniface after he made a bear carry his lug -
gage across the Alps. Bishop Arbeo founds a monastery here.
l iNtz
A trading post on the Ems with a wooden castle to guard the 
Avar border. Count Hildebrand I leaves it to his son, Hildebrand 
II, who exiles himself to Avarland after Count Hardrad’s failed 
coup in 785. Hildebrand II’s son, Hadubrand, unknowingly kills 
his own father in the Avar campaign of 792.
Mo Ndsee
A small Benedictine monastery founded by the Agilolfings 
on the border of Lake Mondsee, led by Abbot Hildebold.
Passau
A river town on the Danube, with a wooden castle, church 
and bridge.
r egeNsburg  (r atisbo NNe )
The Bavarian court is renowned for its elegance and in -
tellectual refinement. The duke maintains many artists at his 
side, in the fashion of the Lombard kings. The city has walls 
and a wooden bridge, as well as a cathedral and an abbey. The 
bishop-abbots of Saint Emmeram are Sintpert (768–791); and 
Adalwin (791–816).
s alzburg
This town is a big salt depot with a monopoly on salt trade, 
held as an allodial fief by Count W erner of the Ostmark.
w ilteN
A wooden fortress guarding the Brenner Pass.