Neustria
Territory
Burgundy is a large hilly, or even mountainous, fief from the 
regions to the east of the upper Loire and the Seine rivers to the 
valleys of the Saône and the Rhone down to where it meets the 
Isère. It consists of no less than thirty counties, of which the most 
important ones are Nevers, Dijon, Forez (Lyon), Montbeliard, 
Savoy (Geneva, Lausanne), and Dauphiné (V alence).
Places of Interest
a utuN
A prosperous cathedral town in the middle of renowned 
vineyards. Just outside the city stand the mysterious Roman ru -
ins of a brick pyramid.
a uXerre
Within the walls of the town there are a small cathedral and 
the royal Benedictine abbey of Saint Germain.
b esaNço N
A small mountain town with a motte-and-bailey castle and 
a cathedral.
d iJ o N
This walled city is the home of the dukes of Burgundy, 
who live in a medium stone castle next to the cathedral and the 
Roman baths. Anseïs the Proud’s father is the castle’s viscount.
g eNeva
A walled town on the shore of Lake Geneva, with a cathe -
dral and a royal mint. The local count is Oliver’s father, Renier.
l aNgres
An episcopal town with city walls, stone gate towers, and 
a cathedral.
l ausaNNe
A small town on the northern shore of Lake Geneva.
l e  Puy -eN -v elay
A important fortified cathedral town. T ogether with Saint 
Giles in Provence, the magnificent cathedral dedicated to Saint 
Mary is one of the most popular pilgrimage sites in Frankland. 
Charlemagne himself travels there in 772 and again in 800. It 
contains a miraculous Fever Stone on which pilgrims lie down 
in order to receive its healing power, notably for paralysis and 
strong fevers.
l uXeuil
A Benedictine abbey founded by Saint Columbanus on 
the site of a healing spring. It was completely destroyed by the 
Moors in 732, but later rebuilt. Nowadays many of its monks are 
Irish. Pilgrims come here to benefit from the curative baths. The 
current Abbot is Boso (768–780); later succeeded by Griomald 
(780–785); Docto (786–799); and Siliernus (800–821).
l yo N
An important walled city on the Rhone River with a stone 
castle, a fortified wooden bridge and a fine market hall. Bishop 
Ado is building a great cathedral, which is completed by his 
Visigothic successor Leidrad.
Mâco N
A small trading town on the Rhone with a wooden church 
and castle, held by Count Thierry, and later by Count Eckhard.
Nevers
A prosperous river town around a wooden castle on the 
Loire.
s aiNt  b erNard  Passes
T wo separate Saint Bernard Passes lead across the Alps into 
Lombardy. The Little Saint Bernard via Grenoble and the valley 
of the Isère, and the Great Saint Bernard which can be reached 
from Geneva and the Rhone River. The Italian side is defended 
by a notorious fortress called the Lombard Narrow.
s aiNt  Maurice  d ’a gauNe
An ancient monastery on the shores of Lake Geneva.
s eNs
A small rectangular cathedral town with city walls.
v aleNce
A walled Roman town along the Rhone with a stone church 
and a priory on the border of Moorish Provence.
v ieNNe
An episcopal town in the Rhone valley, with a stone cas -
tle held by Count Gerard, and later by his nephew Oliver 
(771–778).
Neustria
C
ulture: Frankish.
Territories
The ancient homeland of the Franks is a wide and fertile 
territory of river plains stretching north of the Loire and west 
of the Meuse, with the Seine basin in its center. T roglodyte vil-
lages — where entire buildings are cut into the hillside — are 
characteristic of the Loire valley, while the lower Seine area is 
covered with groves and marshes. The Breton March in the 
west is hillier and less inhabited, while the regions around Paris 
constitute the more populated and rich agricultural heartlands 
of the Frankish realm.
Duchy of Anjou
Rulers: Duke Gerard (768–778); Duke Garin (778–782); 
Duke Thierry (782–786); Duke Geoffrey (786–800); Duke 
Gauzlin (800–815).
==================== PAGE 275 ====================
Chapter Fourteen: Frankland
274
Regional Modifiers: The inhabitants of Anjou, or 
Angevins, are known to be pretentious but trustworthy 
snobs. Knights from Anjou receive +1d3 to Generous, Proud, 
Indulgent, and Honor.
Places of Interest
a Mboise
A motte-and-bailey castle along the Loire.
a Ngers
A rich cathedral city with strong walls and towers, rein -
forced with a stone castle built on a rocky outcrop along the 
Main River.
c Hâteau  g o Ntier
A wooden fortress on the borders of the Mayenne River.
c HiNo N
A wooden fortress along the Vienne River.
l aval
A royal villa near the wooden castle of the local count.
l e  MaNs
An important walled city with a medium stone stronghold, 
a cathedral and the royal abbey of Saint Vincent. The county of 
Le Mans is the home of the powerful Rorgonid family. Count 
Richard of Le Mans is the son of Duke Richard of Normandy 
and the father of Rorgo.
s au Mur
A motte-and-bailey castle protecting a wooden bridge 
across the Loire River.
t ours
An important walled cathedral city, built around the stone 
castle of the count and the famous basilica dedicated to Saint 
Martin, whose tomb is visited by many local pilgrims. The adja-
cent abbey of Marmoutier, founded by Saint Martin himself, has 
an enormous library of over a thousand volumes and preserves 
the relics of Saint Gregory. Its abbots are Berthaire (763–775); 
Itherius (775–796); Alcuin (796–804); and Agilus (804–814).
Duchy of Berry
Rulers: Duke Lambert (760–774); Duke Chunibert 
(774–778); Duke Sturm (778–800); Duke Ebroin (800–802); 
Duke Wicfred (802–819). This is part of King Carloman’s do -
main from 768 to 771.
Regional Modifiers: The rustic, stoic and pious peo -
ple from Berry, the Berrichons, are often mocked because of 
their lack of refinement. They gain +1d3 to Modest, Prudent, 
T emperate, Love [God], and Folk Lore, but suffer –1d3 to 
Courtesy, Eloquence, and Falconry.
Places of Interest
b ourges
This rich city is the home of the duke, who is rebuilding 
the ramparts destroyed by King Pepin a few years ago. During 
Count Herpin of Bourges’ involuntary exile, Viscount Fulco 
seized power in the city. In 770 Herpin’s son, Lion of Bourges, is 
restored as count. 
Sturm is the axe-wielding Bavarian warrior-bishop of 
Bourges and Abbot of Fulda. Though he is of low birth, he is 
trusted by Charlemagne (but despised by many nobles) and is 
sent into Saxony as a missionary, where he is slaughtered in a 
Saxon raid. His successor, Archbishop Ermembert, builds a ca -
thedral and a monastery in his memory.
c HâteaurouX
A stone castle on the Indre River.
i ssouduN
A small town protected by a wooden castle.
l e  b laNc
A wooden castle on the crossroads between T ourraine, 
Poitou and Berry, where it defends a ford across the Creuse River.
s aNcerre
A wooden fortress on an isolated hill along the Loire.
Breton March
Rulers: King Charlemagne (768–789); Count Roland 
(768–778); Count Wido (779–814); King Charlot (789–811).
Regional Modifiers: The inhabitants of the buffer zone 
along the line Dol–Rennes–Nantes have become used to the fre-
quent and violent incursions from the Bretons into their lands. 
This has made them into a somewhat nervous people, who re -
ceive +1d3 to Prudent and Suspicious.
Places of Interest
d ol
A small walled archiepiscopal town on the border with 
Brittany, which attracts many pilgrims who come to visit 
Archbishop Isoré’s cathedral and the relics of Saint Samson. 
Count Ripay dies heroically at Roncevaux, and his son, Anseïs, 
becomes the first Duke of Spain in 779. Anseïs’ younger brother, 
Ripay II, succeeds his father as the Count of Dol.
NaNtes
A walled coastal town with a cathedral and important port 
facilities at the mouth of the Loire River. Lord Lambert has his 
residence in a large stone dungeon tower. He is the father of the 
intrepid Wido, and he is succeeded by his second son, Guy, and 
by Baldwin of Nantes in 785.
==================== PAGE 276 ====================
275
Neustria
r edo N
An isolated hermitage founded by Saint Melaine, situated 
near a ford. Missionaries come here to pray before they enter the 
pagan lands of Brittany. Charlemagne turns it into a monastery 
to celebrate the conversion of the Bretons.
r eNNes
A royal castle surrounded by an important walled town on 
the Vilaine River. The cathedral is built on the tomb of Saint 
Melaine the martyr, who was slain while trying to convert the 
pagan Bretons.
v aNNes
A small walled harbor town with a stone castle on the bor -
der with Brittany. It has a small fishing fleet and is rich in salt. 
Count Frodoald is Count Lambert of Nantes’ youngest son. 
The last count, Thierry of V annes, participates in the conquest 
of Brittany in 786.
Duchy of Île-de-France
Rulers: Duke Nibelung I (751–771), Duke Gerard (771–
779), Duke Stephen (779–816). This is part of King Carloman’s 
domain from 768 to 771.
Regional Modifiers: The inhabitants of the region around 
Paris are often intimately familiar with life in the city or the 
nearby monastery. They are enterprising and self-assured, to 
the point of being arrogant and tactless. Knights from Île-de-
France receive +1d3 modifiers to Honest, Just, Proud, Love 
[Charlemagne], and Reading &W riting.
Places of Interest
b eauvais
This walled town is the seat of a count-bishopric, created 
around the cathedral palace. Count Milo is the son of the glori -
ous Count Orson, who married a Moorish princess of Bile.
c Hartres
A small walled cathedral town on the Eure River.
c Helles
This royal nunnery holds the miraculous chalice of Saint 
Eloi. In 800 the current abbess, Marsillia, is succeeded by Princess 
Gisela, who has been a nun there since childhood. Chelles has an 
excellent scriptorium.
MeauX
A small walled town on the Marne River.
Mo Ntfauco N 
The royal gallows where traitors are hung stands on top of 
this small hill a few miles outside Paris.
NaNteuil
The House of Nanteuil has its stone castle in this small 
walled town.
Noyo N
A walled Roman town with a cathedral and a stone castle. It 
used to be a Merovingian capital. Charlemagne is crowned king 
here in 768.
Paris
Frankland’s biggest and richest city, situated on an island in 
the Seine River. The double city walls hold a magnificent cathe-
dral and a medium stone castle for the duke. Outside the city is 
the only Frankish university, which attracts scholars and wealthy 
students from all nations. The town is held by Count Gerard. 
After Roncevaux his son Bego is made count, until he becomes 
Duke of Septimania in 806. Eschenrad is the Bishop of Paris.
a bbey  of  s aiNt  d eNis
Starting with King Carloman, all Carolingian kings are 
buried in the basilica of this great abbey, which possesses many 
powerful relics, such as Saint Martin’s cloak. The Abbot of Saint 
Denis is automatically the royal arch-chaplain. On October 9 ev-
ery year, on the feast of Saint Denis, the abbey organizes a great 
fair, especially famous for its wines and horses. The abbots are 
Fulrad (768–784); Maginard (784–793); Fardulf (793–805), 
who betrays the plot of Pepin the Hunchback to Charlemagne in 
792, and who carries the relics of Saint Denis into Saxony when 
Charlemagne is campaigning there; and finally Irmio (805–819).
s aiNt  q ueNtiN
A small walled city in the V ermandois region.
s eNlis
A walled town on the Oise River, near the Chantilly Forest 
north of Paris. It has a stone castle, an amphitheater and a 
cathedral.
s oisso Ns
A walled cathedral town on the Aisne River. The last 
Merovingian King, Childeric III, was tonsured here, and impris-
oned in the adjacent Benedictine abbey of Saint Medard (751). 
Archbishop Hildegaud, later succeeded by Richulf, is in charge 
of the cathedral.
Duchy of Normandy
Rulers: Duke Anquetin (761–768); Duke Richard (769–
781); Duke Nibelung II (781–814).
Regional Modifiers: The inhabitants of Normandy are 
solitary and not very talkative. They keep to themselves, but 
have an acute sense of duty, and strong opinions about what is 
right and wrong. Norman knights gain +1d3 to Selfish, Just, 
Prudent, T emperate, and Honor.
Places of Interest
a vraNcHes
A walled episcopal harbor town opposite the abbey on the 
island of Saint Michael’s Mount. The town is protected by a 
wooden motte castle.
==================== PAGE 277 ====================
Chapter Fourteen: Frankland
276
b ayeuX
A small coastal town with a cathedral, a stone dungeon 
tower and a fortified harbor.
c aeN
At the mouth of the Orne River, this small town developed 
around a wooden castle on a rocky promontory.
c Herbourg
A wooden coastal fortress with a small harbor.
Ju Mièges
A royal abbey near Rouen, where T assilo III of Bavaria is 
imprisoned in 789. Its abbots are Droctegand (762–787) and 
Landric (787–814) 
r oueN
An important Roman city on the Seine, which preserves its 
walls and a bath house. The local count lives in a medium stone 
donjon tower near the cathedral. Outside the city lies the great 
abbey of Saint W andrille (or Fontenelle). Its abbots, who are the 
chief taxmen of Quentovic (in Artois), are Witlaïc (761–772); 
Gerbold (772–793), a diplomat in the relations with Offa of 
Mercia; Angegise (793–806); T rasairius (806–817).
v erNo N
A stone guard tower overlooking the Seine River on the 
border with Île-de-France.
Duchy of Orleans
Rulers: Duke Gerold of Vinzgau (763–786); his son 
Duke Adrian (786–815). This is part of King Carloman’s 
domain from 768 to 771.
Regional Modifiers: The Orleanais are known for their 
doggedness, their pride, and their love of hunting birds. They 
gain +1d3 in Proud, Honor, and Falconry.
Places of Interest
b lois
The home of the duke, who lives in a medium stone castle 
dominating the rich walled town on the Loire.
f errières
A royal abbey founded by King Clovis.
f leury
A wealthy royal abbey that guards the relics of Saint 
Benedict. Its powerful abbots are Raoul (767–776); Magulf 
(777–786); Idon (786–801); Fulrad (801–803); Theodulf 
(803–818).
o rléaNs
A very rich walled city on the Loire River, held by the selfish 
Viscount Arneïs, who tries to usurp young King Louis’ throne 
and is killed by Count William Shortnose. He is succeeded 
by Macharias, of the Mayence clan. Inside its walls we find the 
count’s castle, a cathedral and an episcopal palace. Outside the 
city lies the monastery of Saint Germigny-des-Prés, on the banks 
of the Seine River. It contains a reliquary tunic of Saint Vincent. 
Its abbots are Deotimius (768–784); Theodulf (784–803); and 
Lietris (803–819).