Provence
C
ulture: Visigothic.
Rulers: In the beginning of Charlemagne’s reign, most 
individual cities are held by a different Moorish wali, like 
Otrant of Nîmes and Tiebaut of Orange. From 768 to 771 this 
area is nominally under the rule of King Carloman. Once the 
reconquest of Provence starts, Charlemagne appoints new mil -
itary leaders for the region: Duke Marcellin (780–800); Duke 
Lupus III of Gascony (800–814).
Regional Modifiers: The thoroughly Romanized people 
of the southern coastal marshes, mostly Visigoths, are highly fa -
miliar with sea trade and foreign cultures. They are open-mind-
ed, but volatile and inconstant. Provence knights are at +1d3 to 
Selfish, Arbitrary, T rusting, and Love [family].
Territory
The relatively urbanized coastal region, between the Alps 
in the east and the Rhône in the west, consists of fertile fluvial 
plains, steep rocky canyons and valleys, and saltwater marshes 
around the Camargue delta. Strong winds often sweep across the 
plains, where mild winters and hot dry summers favor the culti-
vation of olive and nut trees.
Places of Interest
a iX -eN -ProveNce
The Moors are currently rebuilding this ancient Roman 
town just north of the Camargue.
a rles
A Roman harbor town along the Rhone, with a stone castle 
and city walls, many large water mills and an aqueduct.
a vigNo N
A walled Roman town at the confluence of the Rhone and 
the Durance, with a stone bridge and a cathedral which the 
Moors have turned into a place of pagan worship. Sir Anthony 
used to be the Count of Avignon.
c a Margue
A vast marshy plain with many lagoons between the 
Mediterranean Sea and the Rhone delta.
Marseille
The largest trading port between the Alps and the Pyrenees 
is a city of Greek origin with pink city walls. It has a stone light-
house and is defended by the Castle of Lanson. Count John the 
Visigoth is suspected of secretly allying with the Moors.
NÎMes
A fortified town on the Rhone with a stone castle and a 
surviving amphitheater and aqueduct. During the period of 
Moorish domination, Guymer is the Bishop of Nîmes.
o raNge
This town in the north of the duchy is defended by a great 
city wall and a medium castle built out of marble on a natural 
rock formation, called the Gloriete tower.
s aiNt  g iles
An abandoned monastery founded by Saint Giles the 
Hermit, between Arles and Nîmes. Once liberated from 
Moorish occupation by Sir Raymond, it once more flourish -
es and becomes one of the most important pilgrimage sites of 
Frankland. Many people visit the relics of Saint Giles to be cured 
of infertility.