--- PAGE PART 79 ---

Chapter Sixteen: Non-Player Characters
328
liberated in exchange for his son. He dies at the hands of the 
Saxons in the Battle of the Süntel Mountains in 782.
Garnier of Nanteuil: Raised at the royal court, he fights at 
the side of Anseïs of Carthago. He later rescues his lover, Aye of 
Avignon, when she is imprisoned at Majorca. During the siege 
of his home castle, Garnier is slain by Ganelon’s brother, Milo.
Gerard of Vienne: When Oliver’s proud and independent 
uncle is insulted by King Carloman’s wife, Queen Gerberga, 
he declares a feud and refuses to acknowledge himself as either 
Carloman’s or Charlemagne’s vassal.
“Whatever’s mine, my wealth, my land, my weal
Not one shelled egg thereof I’ll ever yield
To any man — Lord God alone I heed!
Your King Charlemagne I’ll never love nor fear; 
Let him come here and kneel down at my feet!”
— The Song of Aspremont , I
Peace is concluded after an aborted duel between his neph-
ew Oliver and Roland. On his horse Killvillian, the white-haired 
Count Gerard then joins Charlemagne for the First Spanish 
Campaign and dies heroically at Roncevaux.
Guichard the Wild: Count Aymon’s fourth son is 
Bradamant’s twin brother. His rash and reckless behavior earns 
him his surname.
Guy of Nanteuil: T o avenge his father’s death, Guy allies 
with the chivalrous W ali of Majorca and kills the vile Milo of 
Mayence in battle, rekindling the feud between the houses of 
Nanteuil and Mayence.
Lion of Bourges: The courteous son of the destitute Count 
Herpin of Bourges lives an adventurous life, trying to find his 
parents, regain his ancestral fief, and punish traitors (who are 
often from the Mayence clan). The courageous and god-fear -
ing Lion is sometimes assisted in his laudable projects by a holy 
White Knight.
Milo of Aiglent: The father of Roland is the strong, 
handsome, optimistic, valorous, and slightly naive Duke of 
Septimania. He is the bastard son of the false Queen Aliste and 
Bernard of Clermont. He is the royal seneschal until he falls in 
love with Bertha and they are exiled. After their marriage and 
reinstatement at court, he is made Duke of Septimania.
Oliver and William of Bourges: These twin brothers are 
the sons of Lion of Bourges and Florentine of Sicily. After many 
adventures, they manage to recover their ancestral fief by sound-
ing the town’s magical horn.
Richard: Count Aymon’s third son is a doughty warrior. 
Unlike his brothers, the introverted Richard thinks before act -
ing, and occasionally even plans things ahead. Even if Maugis 
remains the House of Aigremont’s uncontested master-brain, 
Richard sometimes saves his brothers from catastrophe by using 
a clever subterfuge.
Minor Characters
Charlemagne’s Family
Parents
P
epin the Short (714–768): Charlemagne’s father is the 
illustrious son of the great Charles Martel and Rothrude. 
He was anointed in 751, and crowned King of the Franks 
in 754. As a young prince he received his education at the abbey 
of St. Denis. Pepin is a clever man with a soothing voice, whose 
motto is: “Never take on more than one enemy at a time.” 
Bertrada Broadfoot (726–783): Pepin the Short’s wife 
is the daughter of King Floris and Queen Blancheflour of 
Asturias. She plays an important role at the royal court until 
her death. As a mother, she favors Charlemagne over his broth -
er Carloman. She spends much energy in finding suitably el -
egant and cultivated wives and husbands for her “barbarian” 
sons and daughters. Bertrada is a pious, chaste, generous and 
modest woman, who thinks everything that goes on at court 
is her business.
Siblings
Adelaid (738–756): Wife of Aymon of Dordon and the 
mother of Renaud, his brothers, and sister Bradamant. Adelaid 
is a modest and generous mother, a pious woman and a faithful 
wife, who never loses her calm at the side of her irascible, and 
often, violent husband.
Rothaid (744–789): A meek but handsome princess, who 
marries Count Anthony of Avignon, to whom she gives a fierce 
daughter, Aye of Avignon.
Carloman I (750–771): Charlemagne’s younger and 
more intellectual brother was raised by Abbot Fulrad at the 
abbey of St. Denis, and is therefore in vogue among scholars. 
His military education was at the hands of Duke Thierry of 
Ardennes, who knights his royal squire in 767. A year later, 
Prince Carloman inherits a large part of his father’s kingdom. 
He marries his beloved Gerberga of Lombardy in 769, who 
bears him two sons: Pepin and Lothair. He is killed by a furi -
ous Ogier In 771, but officially he dies in a “hunting accident.” 
Charlemagne strongly dislikes his peevish younger broth -
er, who is always complaining about everything. As a king, 
Carloman is surrounded by flattering courtiers who spend 
their time scheming and plotting.
Gertrude (751–771): A strong-willed woman who marries 
a Neustrian count. She dies giving birth to a daughter, Avissa, the 
mother of Aiol.
Gisela (757–810): This grave and distant girl is prom -
ised to the Lombard prince Adalgise at an early age, but later 
becomes a nun and abbess of Chelles, where she is nicknamed 
“ Alcuin’s sister.”

--- PAGE PART 81 ---

Chapter Sixteen: Non-Player Characters
330
Duke of Septimania. After Milo’s death in 771, Bertha marries 
Count Ganelon, to whom she gives a son, named Baldwin. At 
her second husband’s shameful death, she retires to a nunnery.
Bernard (736–787): Charlemagne’s uncle is a bastard 
son of Pepin the Short. He is married to a Saxon noble woman. 
The discrete and humble Bernard acts as one of Charlemagne’s 
army commanders in the Lombard wars. He is the father of 
Charlemagne’s favorite cousins, Adalhard and W ala.
Childebrand II (779–826): Charlemagne’s diligent and 
shrewd cousin, son of Count Nibelung I, is a palatine count and 
a missus dominicus. Childebrand is a very discreet and perspica-
cious nobleman.
Gerold of Bavaria: See Paladins.
Gontrada: Adalhard and W ala’s sister is Charlemagne’s 
chaste cousin and a good friend.
Lothair (744–768): This unfortunate cousin is killed by 
Bevis of Aigremont, which sparks the feud between Charlemagne 
and Aymon’s sons.
Nibelung I (725–771): Charlemagne’s distant uncle is the 
son of Childebrand I, who was Charles Martel’s half-brother. He 
is the stern and just Count of Paris, as well as Charlemagne’s pal-
ace count.
W ala (755–836): Adalhard’s younger brother is un -
cle Bernard’s second son. He is an influential royal councilor, 
and one of Charlemagne’s personal friends. He marries Lady 
Rollinda, William Shortnose’s only daughter, and later retires to 
Corbie, where he succeeds his brother as abbot.
The Royal Court
Courtiers
Ganelon of Ponthieu (736–778): The valorous 
Count of Mayence inherited his ancestor Doon’s blazon: 
“St. George (as a knight) decapitating a pagan.” Ganelon is 
Charlemagne’s childhood friend, and marries Princess Bertha 
after Duke Milo d’ Aiglent’s death in 771. Ganelon starts to 
hate his son-in-law, Roland, when Roland makes peace with 
Oliver at the duel of Vienne, a fief Charlemagne would have 
given to Ganelon had Roland won. When, years later, Roland 
laughingly advises Charlemagne to send Ganelon on a vir -
tually suicidal mission to Emir Masile’s court, the Count of 
Mayence decides to avenge himself. His treason results in 
the Battle of Roncevaux, and his vengeful, arbitrary, proud 
and deceitful character is finally revealed. In battle, Ganelon 
wields the blessed sword Murgleis.
Naymo of Bavaria (732–815): Another of Charlemagne’s 
childhood friends, and the king’s most trusted advisor. The 
modest and wise palatine duke is the father of Aquilon (raised as 
Anibal by the Saracens), Bertrand (killed by Ogier in 773), and 
Wistace (Garin of Anjou’s wife and Vivien the Fearless’ mother). 
The wise Naymo is unswervingly loyal, just, moderate, forgiv -
ing, merciful and prudent. He acts in all respects as if he were 
Charlemagne’s elder brother, and is at the emperor’s side until 
the end.
Academicians
Many learned abbots and bishops live at court permanently, 
or for several months a year, to assist Charlemagne in the admin-
istration of his kingdom. The Palace Academy is founded in 780 
by Alcuin. All its members have a skill of at least 16 in Eloquence, 
Intrigue, Languages, Reading & W riting, and Religion. They all 
have classical nicknames; Charlemagne himself, for example, is 
known as David.
Alcuin (735–804): The tall British monk is a calm and 
honest man with great diplomatic and persuasive skills. He is a 
magister at Y ork until he becomes Charlemagne’s personal coun-
cilor and tutor in 780. The wise and most learned Northumbrian 
founds the royal Palace Academy, where he is nicknamed 
Flaccus. He goes back to Y ork in 790, but a few years later he re-
turns to Frankland. In 796 he retires from court as the Abbot of 
St. Martin’s (and several other satellite abbeys and monasteries), 
where he dies in 804.
Angilbert: See Other Relatives.
Arno of Salzburg (750–821): This Bavarian bishop enters 
the Palace Academy as Aquila, a year after T assilo’s banishment 
to the Monastery of Jumieges. King Charlemagne appoints him 
as Archbishop of Germania (798), Abbot of St. Amand, and lat-
er Archbishop of the Avar March (805). He is frequently sent 
out as missus dominicus.
Benedict of Aniane (747–821): The son of the Visigothic 
Count Aigulf of Gellone grows up at the royal court, where he 
becomes the personal friend of Alcuin and Theodulf. He lives 
in a Burgundian monastery for a while, but in 781 he becomes 
King Louis’ spiritual mentor. He writes a new Benedictine Rule 
for the numerous monasteries he founds in Septimania and 
Aquitaine, such as Aniane (782) and Gellone (804, for his boy -
hood friend, William Shortnose). By the time Louis is crowned 
Emperor, the dynamic Benedict has become a living saint: 
“Thanks to his help, the holy fortresses [monasteries] are now 
pleasing to God. A beautiful will reigned in his sacred con -
duct; he was as holy as it is allowed man to be. ” Ermoldus , II
Clement (750–818): An eloquent and patient Irish monk 
who arrives at Charlemagne’s court in 775 and rapidly becomes 
the magister of the University of Paris. As Alcuin’s right hand at 
court, he is in charge of the education of the royal children.
Dagulf (743–809): During summer, the conscientious li -
brary master travels through the realm to visit the royal scripto-
ria. In winter, he supervises the monks at court.
Dungal (749–828): This Irish monk is Charlemagne’s 
court astrologer. He teaches the liberal arts at the Palace 
Academy.
Einhard (770–840): A very talented and versatile dwarf-
sized monk from Fulda. He is a scholar, and skilled in metal work-
ing, wood-carving, and gem cutting. He becomes Charlemagne’s 
biographer, and continues the paladins’ chronicles where T urpin 
left them. At court, he woos one of Charlemagne’s daughters. 
His academic nickname is Nardulus. Einhard undertakes several

--- PAGE PART 83 ---

Chapter Sixteen: Non-Player Characters
332
is Duke T assilo III of Bavaria, who is Charles Martel’s grand-
son. T assilo is a very cultivated, rich and refined nobleman who 
marries the Lombard Princess Liutperga. The eloquent and 
handsome duke considers himself as an independent ruler and 
dresses like a king. He is jealous of Charlemagne’s power and 
constantly plots against his cousin. That is why Charlemagne 
condemns him for treason in 788 and sends him and his rela -
tives to a monastery.
Arnulfings: Charles Martel, Pepin the Short, and 
Charlemagne are members of the powerful house of the Frankish 
kings, also known as the Carolingians, which can trace its origins 
back to the T rojans. Their domains can be found throughout 
Austrasia and Neustria. The house derives its name from the relics 
of Saint Arnulf, which the king preserves at the cathedral of Metz. 
The Arnulfing patroness is Saint Petronella, Saint Peter’s daughter.
Bordelais: Duke Sevin I of Bordeaux is the leader of this 
ancient family. Once the masters of Aquitaine, they lost much of 
their influence and prestige during the long feud opposing them 
to the Lorrainers, but after the death of Duke W aifer and his son 
Hunold, the Bordelais come to the foreground once more.
Etichonids: A family of strong but honest brutes from 
Alsace, allied to the Carolingians. Eric, the future Duke of Friuli, 
is a member of this clan, as is Count Hugo of T ours, who leaves 
on an embassy to Byzantium in 811. 
Gerardines: Gerard of Paris has two sons: Bego, who suc -
ceeds his father as Count of Paris and later becomes Duke of 
Septimania, and Lothair, who becomes a count in Aquitaine. 
The Gerardines can trace their genealogy back to Charles 
Martel.
House of Lorraine: An ancient and respected house of 
Austrasia, where they control many monasteries. Although they 
were victorious in their bloody feud against the Bordelais not 
very long ago, this has, paradoxically, weakened them. Many 
young Lorrainer widows remarried, which broke up the family 
coherence. 
Lombards: Rivals of the Carolingians. They understand -
ably develop a grudge against Charlemagne when he shames 
Desideria by repudiating her, then conquers Lombardy and 
sends Desiderius to a monastery, wages war against Arichis of 
Benevento, and deposes T assilo III of Bavaria. Members of the 
Lombard royal line are Desiderius, his son Adalgis, and his four 
daughters Liutperga, Desideria, Gerberga and Adalperga, re -
spectively married to T assilo III, Charlemagne, Carloman II and 
Arichis of Benevento.
Mayence: The Austrasian Mayence clan is indirectly re -
lated to the Arnulfings by Princess Alpaïda the Saxon. The de -
scendants of Grifo of Hautefeuille, fourth son of the illustrious 
Doon of Mayence, are seen as clearly separated from the other 
houses founded by old Doon’s many sons. The Mayence Clan 
is the second most influential house of the kingdom; respected 
and feared by many, and hated by some. Almost all vile traitors 
in the stories are from the wicked Mayence Clan, such as Sir 
Ganelon and Sir Hardrad.
Monglane or Narbonnais: Although far from wealthy, the 
Narbonnais are the single most powerful house in Septimania, 
and later Provence. The branch to which Sir Oliver belongs con-
trols much of Burgundy. The Narbonnais supply many famous 
heroes and even paladins including William Shortnose and his 
nephew, Bertrand.
Nibelungs: Charlemagne’s wealthy and loyal allies and 
relatives descend from Charles Martel’s brother Childebrand I. 
They live in Neustria, and particularly Normandy. Most of them 
are thoughtful and scrupulous men.
Rorgonids: A proud family from Normandy, led by Duke 
Richard of Normandy and later by Count Rorgo of Maine, the 
lover of Princess Rothrud.
Widonids: Another great family allied to the Arnulfings 
have their fiefs in the Mosel region, around Reims and T rier, 
the Breton March, and Italy. The best known leader of this line 
is the merciless Wido, who succeeds Roland as Count of the 
Breton March in 778. His brother W arnar serves King Louis of 
Aquitaine.
Magicians
Angelica: A stunning and chaste princess of Cathay, who 
wears a powerful magic ring of invisibility and magic negation. 
She may herself produce only minor enchantments, but her su -
pernatural beauty (APP 30) often works as a Love spell on men. 
She is saved from a sea monster by Rogero (775) and wooed by 
Roland, but finally falls in love with a young Moor, Medoro, 
with whom she returns to Cathay.
Atlantes: The most powerful Saracen astrologer and sor -
cerer lives in a magic mountain castle. He loves Rogero as his 
son, and tries to protect him from harm and adventure by lock -
ing him up inside his steel prison-palace. The deceitful and cun-
ning Atlantes owns a powerful spell book of illusions, a Shield 
of Blinding and a hippogriff. Carelessness is his weakness. The 
magician finally dies of a broken heart when Rogero leaves, con-
verts to Christianity, and marries Bradamant.
Basin (Elegast): The Frankish Count of Geneva is a skillful 
enchanter, who was born and raised at his fief of Huy. He mainly 
uses herbs to produce magic effects such as opening locks, un -
derstanding animal speech, putting people to sleep, and healing 
wounds. Ever loyal to Charlemagne, he nevertheless is accused 
of betrayal and destituted (781). Impoverished, he becomes the 
robber knight Elegast, wandering through the Austrasian for -
ests. Charlemagne forgives Basin and reinstates him in 786. At 
the end of his life he becomes the Archbishop of T rier (802). He 
has three sons: Berenger, Renier, and Aubery.
Maugis: The most famous Frankish wizard-knight, from 
the family of Aigremont, was raised by a faerie lady and studied 
magic at T oledo. Renaud’s cousin possesses a very useful spell 
book which he sometimes consults. However, he only relies on 
his magic when all other means have failed. He uses powders to 
make others sleep or sneeze, and to conjure up demons who he 
may send on an errand or foretell him the future:

--- PAGE PART 84 ---

333
Maugis took his tome.
To understand this matter more,
He called four demons up from hell.
See how his mind was terrified!
See how he shook, by heavenly God!
He saw, as before his eyes,
Charlemagne dead, his court destroyed.
— Orlando Innamorato , 1.1.XXXVI
Maugis becomes Charlemagne’s most hated adversary in 
his feud with the house of Aigremont. On several occasions, the 
enchanter plays tricks on his sovereign, though never with the 
intention to harm him.
Merlin: The long-dead magician is sometimes present as a 
living spirit inside a cave or a tomb, from where he makes proph-
ecies and gives his good counsel to any passing knights.
Enemies Within
No king is free of internal intrigue, and Charlemagne is 
no exception. 
The Aquitainians
The followers of Duke Hunold of Aquitaine, who is killed 
in 769, claim that at least one of the late duke’s children is still 
alive and can pretend to the lordship of Aquitaine. They do not 
foment open rebellion, but they use rather subversive ways of 
achieving their objectives.
It is noteworthy that the Frankish king almost never visits 
the southern part of the Franklands. T o consolidate his power 
in the south, Charlemagne has his son Louis crowned King of 
Aquitaine in 781 with the help of William Shortnose. On this 
occasion, nobles such as Arneïs and the relatives of old Richard 
of Orleans cause quite a stir.
Afterwards, the Aquitainian faction at court is seriously 
weakened, but their thirst for independence and their personal 
ambitions of power are still very much alive. 
The Bavarian-Lombard Alliance
At his brother’s unfortunate death in 771, Charlemagne 
claims the lands of Carloman II and becomes the sole leader of 
the Franks. This shocks several high noblemen, since normally 
Carloman’s title should have been passed on to his two healthy 
sons, for whom Charlemagne refuses to appoint a regent. Rather 
than serve a usurper, Ogier and his friends openly rebel against 
their new king. When Carloman’s widow, Gerberga of Pavia, 
flees to her father’s court, Frankish nobles accompany the prin-
cess and her two sons to Lombardy.
Charlemagne captures his sister-in-law and his two young 
cousins, as well as Ogier the Dane, during his successful cam -
paign against the Lombards in 773. Charlemagne sends the 
royal Lombards (King Desiderius, Queen Ansa, Princess 
Gerberga and her sons) to separate monasteries, and he has 
Ogier locked up in a castle under Duke Naymo’s care. As far 
as the king is concerned, the Lombard royal dynasty is no 
more, and Charlemagne distributes titles and lands to his loyal 
Frankish followers.
Most surviving Lombard nobles swear fealty to their new 
king. But not all of them. Others prefer to flee, especially to 
Avarland or Bavaria. They are welcomed with open arms at the 
Agilolfing court, as Duke T assilo of Bavaria is himself married 
to the Lombard Princess Liutperga. Indeed, the disinherited 
Gerberga and her relatives have many powerful discontented 
friends. Among their allies are some Franks who remain loyal to 
Carloman II and his sons. Abroad, the Bavarian-Lombard fac -
tion is supported by Constantinople (the refuge of the vengeful 
Prince Adalgise), the Avars, and the independent Italian duchies 
of Benevento, Spoleto and Friuli.
The Clan of Mayence
The House of Mayence is one of the most powerful clans 
of the kingdom. Their leader, Ganelon of Ponthieu, Count of 
Mainz, is a trusted councilor until he betrays his lord king out 
of hate for Roland, his step-son. Ganelon is accused after the 
battle of Roncevaux. His honor is defended by his champion 
and cousin, Pinabel the Gascon (an excellent swordsman and a 
skilled thief ), who loses his judicial duel against Count Thierry 
of Anjou. Ganelon is quartered by horses.
Apart from Baldwin the Brave, all other Mayence knights 
are black-hearted traitors and ideally suited to figure as villains 
in an adventure. They want power by all means and, not surpris-
ingly, they are among the founders of the Black Knights.
The Revolting Barons
Regularly, wronged vassals — including some paladins — 
oppose King Charlemagne. Even though they continue to rec -
ognize him as their lawful king, and respect him as such, they 
fight him to obtain justice or reparation for a crime. The four 
sons of Count Aymon defy the king’s power for several years, 
just like their cousin Maugis and their friend Ogier the Dane. 
Other powerful counts, like Gerard of Vienne and his family, or 
Garnier and Guy of Nanteuil, refuse to submit to Charlemagne 
on his conditions. All these revolting barons end up making 
peace, after having defeated their king in battle, or a forceful in-
tervention from the paladins, or a miracle from God.
Pepin the Hunchback
Charlemagne’s repudiated son, sweet-faced but unfortu -
nately hunchbacked, lives a miserable life in the court’s kitch -
ens. His mother Himiltrude is safely locked away in a nunnery. 
But at court, flatterers tell Pepin that he should take his life 
back into his own hands, change his destiny and become king, 
or even emperor, himself ! These “friends” would gladly help 
to install Pepin on the Frankish throne in order to obtain high 
positions for themselves. On several occasions, high nobles 
conspire against their king in order to seize the throne. Count 
Hardrad of Thuringia comes close in 785, but his vast conspir -
acy ultimately fails.
Minor Characters

--- PAGE PART 85 ---

Chapter Sixteen: Non-Player Characters
334
The Black Knights
After the failed coup of Count Hardrad, some of his rel -
atives ally themselves with the House of Mayence. They create 
a secret but influential brotherhood, the Black Knights, whose 
first leader is Macharias of Lausanne, Hardrad’s nephew. Their 
goal is to further their political interests by manipulating Prince 
Charlot, Charlemagne’s favorite son. The Black Knights are 
mostly courtiers, always intriguing and scheming.
Whenever their leader sends them out to do dirty business 
(up to assassination), the anonymous knights all dress in black, 
hence the name of their organization. They recognize each other 
by a small secret token, like a blue stone or a ribbon. The prince 
himself almost never participates and usually stays back at court. 
However, in 809 the Black Knights and their leader, Amaury de 
Hauteville, ambush Huon of Bordeaux and his men, and in the 
ensuing fight Prince Charlot is killed.
Amaury of Hauteville: The last member of the House of 
Mayence becomes Count of Mayence in 803. A few years lat -
er, he replaces Fulco of Morillon as the chief of Charlot’s Black 
Knights. Amaury is a dastardly backstabber, corrupt and cruel, 
fatally proud, and over-confident.
Foreigners
Avars
Dorame: The decadent khagan of the Avars (784–790).
Basques
Otxoa: The treacherous Duke of the Basques allies with the 
Moors against the Franks, resulting in the disaster of Roncevaux, 
where Otxoa meets his end.
Orthez: He succeeds his father as a duke in 778, and al -
though he pledges fealty to Charlemagne, he tries to remain as 
independent from his Frankish overlord as possible.
Bretons
Aquin: The pagan king of Brittany is bald, with a hoary 
white beard. He wields a magic lance and is known for his wis -
dom, cunning and valor. He is one of the very few Bretons to be 
literate. His war cry is “Manbrie!.” He reigns until 786.
Doret of Gardain: King Aquin’s youngest son is eager to 
prove himself in battle.
Erdisa: The Breton queen is very beautiful and exception -
ally modest and wise.
Grimoart of Dinard: King Aquin’s eldest son is a boastful, 
cruel and selfish man.
Lubien and Macabray: T wo aggressive local warlords, who 
regularly stage raids into Frankland for loot and prestige. Killed 
in 785.
c o Nverts
Salomon: See Paladins.
Samson: See Paladins.
Britons
Mercia
Offa: The clever and learned King of Mercia (757–796) 
annexed W essex (by marriage), Kent, Sussex and East Anglia, 
unifying southern England. An enlightened ruler, Offa is a great 
admirer and a faithful ally of Charlemagne, who in return pro -
tects British merchants and pilgrims on the continent.
Astolf: King Ecfrid’s half-brother. See Paladins.
Clarice: King Offa’s beautiful sister marries the widowed 
Ogier in 780.
Ecfrid: Offa’s son is crowned co-ruler of Mercia in 787, 
and rules as the sole king from his father’s death to his own, five 
months later. Like his father, he is a loyal ally of the Franks in 
their common struggle against the Danes.
Coenwulf: The pious and ruthless King of Mercia 
(796–821).
NortHu Mbria
Ahlred: King of Northumbria (765–774).
Aethelred I: King of Northumbria (774–779).
Aelfwald I: King of Northumbria (779–788).
Osred II: King of Northumbria (788–796).
Eardwulf: King of Northumbria (796–806), whose bla -
zon is “d’azur à une couronne de fleurs argent” (a crown of silver 
flowers on a blue field).
Alcuin: See Academicians.
s cotlaNd
Gilmer: Zerbin’s valiant nephew serves at the court of 
William Shortnose.
Zerbin: The romantic prince of Scotland is the lover of 
Isabella of Galicia, Duke Hamon’s daughter. Zerbin aids in find-
ing back Roland’s wits. He recovers Roland’s arms and armor, 
but is then slain by the cruel Mandricard (776).
w esseX
Cynewulf: King of W essex (757–786).
Bertric: King of W essex (786–802).
Egbert the Great:  As a chivalrous youth, Prince Egbert 
spends some time at Charlemagne’s court. After Offa’s death, he 
rules W essex as an independent sovereign (802–839). 
Byzantines
e MPerors
Constantine V: The Basileus (741–775), whom the Franks 
call Hugo the Strong, is an ambitious man and a skilled military 
commander. One of his daughters, Iakobine, has a child from 
the paladin Oliver, named Galien. The Byzantines irreverently 
nickname him “Copronymos” (“dung-named”).

--- PAGE PART 86 ---

335
Leo IV: Nicknamed “the Khazar” because his mother was 
a Circassian princess, Emperor Leo IV (775–780) is a wise and 
tolerant ruler.
Constantine VI: This weak emperor (780–797) is con -
sumed by his ill-fated love for the Frankish Princess Rothrud. 
Irene of Athens: Leo IV’s wife, she becomes the em -
press-regent (780–797), and later empress (797–802), then is 
exiled to Lesbos. Irene is an unscrupulous, energetic, intelligent, 
and very generous lady.
Nikephoros: This emperor (802–811) is notorious for his 
devouring ambition and cruelty. Killed at the battle of Pliska.
Staurakios the Paralyzed: Basileus of the Greeks (811). 
Named co-emperor with his father, Nikephoros, in 803. He ab-
dicates in favor of Michael Rangabe, and dies in 812 of wounds 
received at the Battle of Pliska. 
Michael Rangabe: A skilled politician, Emperor Michael 
(811–813) tries to reconcile the opposing factions in order to 
unite his people against the Persians.
Leo V: Emperor of Byzantium (813–820).
PatriarcHs
Niketas the Slav: Patriarch from 766 to 780.
Paul the New: Patriarch from 780 to 784, when he retires 
to a monastery.
T arasios: This patriarch (784–806) is a very wise and 
learned lay scholar.
Nikephoros: T arasios’ successor (806–815) is a simple but 
learned monk, known for his chastity and his tolerant attitude.
o tHers
Stauriakos: A eunuch, a patrician and a logothete. He is 
Empress Irene’s right hand and favorite diplomat until his death 
in 800.
Elissa: A court eunuch who acts as Princess Rothrud’s tutor.
Pancratios: The Byzantine court astrologer.
Salmadrine: This beautiful princess, Constantine V’s sis -
ter, is married to the heroic Sir Landri of La Roche, the son of 
Doon of La Roche and Princess Olive of the Franks.
Danes
Godfrid I: The proud and illustrious Frankish King of the 
Danes (740–781), was married to Duchess Passerose of Bavaria, 
Duke Naymo’s cousin. After her death in 751, the old but valiant 
King Godfrid married a Danish princess named Belissende, who 
pushed him to make war on the Frankish king. Defeated in bat-
tle, King Godfrid agreed to send his son, Ogier, as a hostage to 
the Frankish court. The noble king becomes Widukind’s ally in 
the Saxon’s resistance against the Frankish conquest.
Guyon/Hemming I: Ogier’s chaste and thoughtful 
half-brother is crowned after their father’s violent death in a 
campaign against invading giants. Under King Hemming I’s rule 
(781–798), the relations between the Franks and the Danes are 
relatively peaceful.
Magnus the Strong: A Danish convert who serves as a 
knight at the Frisian court under Duke Lohier. In 800, carrying 
the enchanted Frisian banner he helps King Charlemagne to lib-
erate Rome and he becomes the duke of Frisia.
Sigfrid: This rich and selfish warlord manages to usurp the 
title of King of Denmark in 798, after King Hemming I’s death. 
Godfrid II avenges his father and kills Sigfrid in battle in 804.
Godfrid II: King Hemming I’s son rules from 804 to 
810, when he is killed by a Danish traitor. The wealthy and 
prudent Godfrid II builds the Danevirke to protect his lands 
from the Franks.
Hemming II: King Godfrid II’s nephew is a wise and pru-
dent king (811–812). He makes war with the Franks and favors 
prosperity through trade.
Ogier the Dane: See Main Heroes.
Reginald: King Hemming I’s youngest son dies in battle 
in 808.
Gascons and Aquitainians
a quitaiNiaN  Nobles
W aifer: The Duke of Aquitaine (748–767) is an ally of the 
rebellious Prince Grifo (King Pepin’s half-brother).
Hunold: Duke of Aquitaine (767–768), Duke W aifer’s son.
Sevin of Bordeaux: Duke of Aquitaine (769–803). See 
Paladins.
Alice: Duchess-regent of Aquitaine (803–810), Sevin’s 
wife and mother of Huon of Bordeaux.
Huon of Bordeaux: See Paladins.
g asco N Nobles
Lupus: The Duke of Gascony (759–768) betrays his ally 
Duke W aifer of Aquitaine, formally submits to Charlemagne, 
and becomes a faithful Frankish count. He dies at Roncevaux.
Yo n :  The Duke of Gascony (768–786) marries his eldest 
daughter Clarissa to Renaud of Montalban, his second daughter 
Ayglentine becomes the wife of Guy of Nanteuil, and the third 
weds the valiant Sir Bevis of Commarchis.
Odalric: Duke Lupus’ second son captures his rival, Duke 
Chorso of T oulouse, in 787 and vainly tries to restore the inde-
pendence of Gascony. He is forced to surrender and is sent to a 
monastery to reflect upon his numerous sins.
Sancho: See Paladins.
Huns
a var  k HagaNs
Kurguz: The fat and decadent ceremonial khagan.
Unguimer: A traitor tarkan who helps the Franks conquer 
the Avar Ring in 794.
b ulgar  k HagaNs
T elerig: Successful in his wars with Byzantium, the cruel kha-
gan is nevertheless chased from power by one of his own in 776.
Minor Characters

--- PAGE PART 87 ---

Chapter Sixteen: Non-Player Characters
336
Rogero: See Paladins. This Christian King of the Bulgars 
(777–784) rules under the name of T elerig II. He converts nu -
merous Huns, who flee from Bulgaria when Rogero is murdered 
by the Mayence clan.
Krum: King Rogero’s successor is a skillful battle leader 
and a subtle diplomat. His rule (784–814) is based on austerity, 
discipline and ruthless military efficiency. He maintains the alli-
ance with the Franks to annihilate his Avar rivals.
c ircassiaN  t sars
Sacripant: The courteous tsar of Circassia (or Khazaria) is 
a vain contender for the love of Angelica of Cathay. He rides the 
fabulous horse Frontino, until it is stolen from underneath him 
by Brunello.
s ericaNe  k HagaNs
Agrican: Roland kills this noble and worthy khagan in a 
duel for Angelica’s love in 775. Just before he expires, Agrican 
demands that Roland baptize him.
Gradasso: This chivalrous but arrogant khagan of the 
T artars attacks Frankland and defies Charlemagne in order to 
win Bayard and Durendal for himself. He is finally killed by 
Roland at the threefold duel of Lampedusa (776).
Jews
Isaac: A wise and wealthy merchant who speaks Hebrew, 
Latin, Greek, and Arabic. Charlemagne sends him on an embas-
sy to Harun al-Rashid in 799.
Lombards
r oyal  l o Mbard  f a Mily
Desiderius: The former Duke of T uscany, now King of 
Lombardy, is too old to fight on the battlefield. He prefers to 
advance his plans through political alliances, by marrying his 
children to the rich and powerful. He is sent to a monastery after 
the fall of Pavia in 774.
Ansa: King Desiderius’ beautiful and proud wife.
Adalchis: King Desiderius’ only son is the exiled leader 
of the anti-Frankish alliance. He is resentful, cruel, and rather 
a coward.
Liutperga: Desiderius’ eldest daughter is married to Duke 
T assilo III of Bavaria. She cultivates an intense and overt hate of 
King Charlemagne, to whom she never bows.
Gerberga: Desiderius’ second daughter is King Carloman’s 
wife. At her husband’s death, she flees to Pavia.
Desideria: See Wives.
Adalperga: Desiderius’ fourth daughter is married to Duke 
Arichis of Benevento.
b eNeveNto
Arichis: The stubborn and haughty duke (758–787) calls 
himself “prince, ” and refuses to submit after the Frankish con -
quest of Lombardy. He is pious and cultivated, and delights in 
intrigues and dastardly plots, quite like his Byzantine friends. He 
is married to Princess Adalperga of Lombardy.
Grimoald III: Arichis’ youngest son is taken hostage 
by Charlemagne in 787, then released and installed as duke 
(788–806). He remains loyal and even fights against his former 
Byzantine allies.
Grimoald IV: He was Grimoald’s treasurer, and takes the 
throne from Grimoald III’s son, Ilderic, in 806. He rules by 
brute force until his assassination in 817.
f riuli
Rhodgaud: Rebellious and fickle Duke of Friuli (767–776).
Marcarius: Duke of Friuli (776–789), appointed by 
Charlemagne himself.
Eric: See Paladins. Duke of Friuli (789–799).
Aio: Duke of Friuli (799–816), arrogant but respected.
s Poleto
Theodicius: The Lombard duke (767–773) dies in the war 
against the Franks.
Hildeprand: A valorous Frankish duke (774–789), who 
dies in battle against the Byzantines.
Winichis: A just and loyal Frankish duke (789–822).
v eNice
Galbaio: The wealthy doge (duke) of V enice (764–787) is 
a shrewd and prudent man.
Giovanni: Galbaio’s son and his successor as doge (787–805) 
is a vengeful, cruel character and an unscrupulous slave trader.
Oberlier: As doge (805–810) he wisely marries a Frankish 
woman and remains loyal to Charlemagne.
o tHers
Garnier: The perfidious Duke of Calabria.
Gregorio: Duke of Campania.
Milo: Duke of Apulia.
Persians
Al-Mansour: This generous and just caliph (754–775) 
stimulates the arts and sciences that make the Persian realm 
flourish.
Al-Mahdi: Al-Mansour’s son is a just and stern caliph 
(775–785), who manages to keep the peace. He imprisons his 
vizier, Jacub, when he suspects him of treason.
Al-Hadi: Al-Mahdi’s son is briefly caliph from 785 to 786, 
until he is assassinated by a family member.
Harun al-Rashid: The enlightened, just and very learned 
caliph (786–809) is Charlemagne’s respected ally.
Al-Amin: Harun’s son and successor (809–813).
o tHers
Jafar: Harun’s grand vizier is a shrewd, powerful, and very 
demanding nobleman.

--- PAGE PART 89 ---

Chapter Sixteen: Non-Player Characters
338
Gaudisso: A vain and decadent Sultan (803–811), who 
is slain by Huon of Bordeaux. The young paladin marries the 
Sultan’s gorgeous daughter, Clarimunda.
Agrapard: The Sultan of Babylon (811–814).
Nobles
Brunello the Dwarf: A master-thief who steals Angelica’s 
magic ring, Sacripant’s horse, and Marfisa’s sword (775). He 
fails to kill Bradamant, who ties him to a tree. Brunello is 
liberated by Marfisa, but is then hanged by the Saracen Emir 
Agramant (776).
Ferragut: A courteous but stupid Moorish giant, Emir 
Marsile’s nephew, who is completely invulnerable to weapons 
(except at his navel) thanks to a magic healing balm. He is killed 
in a duel by Roland in 771.
Lengoulaffre: Sultan Bruhier’s brother is the W ali of 
Alexandria. He gets killed in a duel with Carahue in 784.
Mandricard: Rodomont’s rival for the love of Princess 
Doralice.
Rodomont of Algiers: This extremely boastful, yet cour -
teous, Emir of Algiers is the father of Galacienne (Rogero’s 
mother), and himself in love with Princess Doralice of Granada 
(who prefers Mandricard). Rodomont accidentally kills Princess 
Isabella of Galicia, for whom he builds a bridge and a tomb. In 
her memory, he defends the bridge leading to the funerary mon-
ument for an entire year. He is killed by Roland at Bradamant’s 
wedding (777).
Yvorin of Monbranc: Sultan Gaudisso’s brother.
c o Nverts
Iroldo: Prasildo’s gallant companion, and Roland’s friend.
Moisan: The Emir of Jerusalem converts in 782, after hav-
ing witnessed a miracle. His daughter Clara demands baptism 
and marries Ogier’s companion, W alter.
Prasildo: Roland’s friend, and Iroldo’s chivalrous 
companion.
Saxons and Frisians
Abbio and Wibrecht: Widukind’s sons, who are forcibly 
baptized in their father’s company in 785.
Brun: The chief of the Angarians.
Cimosco: The chief of the Frisians.
Dyalas: Widukind’s third son is a chivalric knight who 
denies his Saxon heritage and demands to be baptized as 
“Widukind the Convert.” Charlemagne appoints him Duke of 
Saxony after Baldwin’s untimely death in 783.
Hessi: The Eastphalian leader, who submits to 
Charlemagne in 775.
Widukind: His name means “child of the forest.” Widukind 
is the uncontested leader of the W estphalians, and later even of 
all rebel Saxons. He is a shamanic warrior who possesses the 
power of invisibility; a vengeful and cruel man. He is married to 
Lady Sebile, who is in love with Roland’s half-brother, Baldwin, 
whom she marries after having received baptism in 783.
Widukind is allied with the Danes, with whom he relent -
lessly fights the hated Franks, until he is finally captured and 
baptized in 785. Widukind then becomes a monk at the Abbey 
of Reichenau until his death in 810.
Slavs
Dragovit: Prince of the Wilzi.
Godelaid: Prince, son of Thrasico.
Lecho: Prince of the Czechs.
Miliduoch: Prince of the Serbs.
Thrasico: The last independent King of the Slavs.
Visigoths
k iNgs  of  a sturias
Fruela the Cruel: King of Asturias until his assassination 
(757–768).
Aurelio: A good-hearted and generous king (768–774) 
who gains the throne upon the death of his cousin. His rank is 
re-affirmed by Charlemagne in 771.
Silo: An ambitious king (774–783) and a subtle diplomat.
Mauregato the Usurper: King of Asturias (783–789). He 
is the evil, scheming, bastard son of Alphonso I and a Saracen 
concubine. He is brother to Fruela the Cruel.
Bermudo the Deacon: A merciful and pious king (789–
791), who abdicates and retires to a monastery.
Alphonso II the Chaste: An enlightened king (791–813), 
reputed to be chaste, generous, temperate, pious and valorous.
Hugo the Orphan: Raymond of St. Giles’ only son mar -
ries Alphonso’s heiress Sorplante, and becomes the first Frankish 
King of Asturias in 813.
o tHers
Beato of Liebana: A learned monk at the Asturian 
court; strongly opposed to Adoptionism and an intimate 
friend of Alcuin.
Benedict of Aniane: See Academicians.
Bera: The loyal and valorous Count of Carcassonne is 
made Count of Barcelona after its conquest in 801.
Hamon of Galicia: See Paladins.
Isabella of Galicia: Duke Hamon’s romantic daughter, 
in love with Prince Zerbin of Scotland. She is slain by the cruel 
Rodomonte in 775.
Raymond: Duke of Navarra (779–803).

