--- PDF PAGE 41 (Rulebook Page 41) ---
Chapter One: Character Creation
40
Female Knights
I know of no path safer than that along which my sword 
directs me.
— Marfisa, in Orlando Furioso, XX
Y
our campaign may have room for female knights. A 
woman may choose to take up the profession of arms 
for several reasons. For instance, a military emergency 
might make great and unusual demands for soldiers (like in the 
example below); a kinsman may need rescue without any other 
family member or champion available; she may be motivated by 
her own independence rather than the desire to follow custom.
The valiant Lady Orable is willing to fight: 
“I shall remain in Orange, the great,
With the ladies, there are so many here.
Each one will have a Moorish coat of mail
And on her head a green shining helmet,
At her side she will gird a good sword,
At her neck a shield, a sharp spear in her hand.
 (...) We shall climb up on these walls in the front
And defend them well, if the Saracens attack.
I shall be armed like any warrior.” 
— Aliscans, LV
Female knights are called “Dame” or “Sir” (their prefer­
ence),so Bradamant should be addressed as “Dame Bradamant.” 
Note that “Lady Bradamant” means something different al­
together; “Lady” is the honorific given to the wives of nobles. 
Female squires are simply called “Squire,” just like men. 
To create female characters, two possibilities exist. Either 
you generate a female character exactly the same way as if she 
were a male, or you take into account the specific entries for 
women in the tables relating to her family, attributes and skills.
Acceptance
While female knights like Bradamant are accepted as the 
equals of men by Charlemagne and his paladins, reactions from 
others vary. Old-fashioned knights generally think that women 
belong in the kitchen and nursery, and any deviance from this is 
met with scorn, contempt, and hostility. Others accept women 
knights only if they can prove themselves and do not get too up­
pity about it.
Bradamant refuses to marry a man of less valor than herself: 
“Permit no husband to be bestowed upon me until he has 
demonstrated greater prowess at arms than I possess. I must 
make trial of whoever would have me, either with lance or 
with sword: let the first man to defeat me win me; let the 
defeated seek other brides.” 
— Orlando Furioso, XLIV
which might not be replaced while on campaign. This is about 
one horse-load per knight and squire team, and includes the 
Travel Gear for each person. These possessions are usually kept 
in a trunk in the lord’s hall. When a knight goes on campaign 
with his lord, the lord lends the knight a horse to carry this 
gear. If adventuring on his own, a knight must find, borrow, 
buy, or otherwise obtain a horse if he wishes to both carry this 
gear and allow his squire to ride.
Possessions: Knights often accumulate gold, silver mon­
ey, extra weapons, additional mounts, sumptuous goods, and so 
forth, which they do not carry everywhere they go. It stays back 
at their manor or in their lord’s hall. 
Step 9: Glorious Stories
Glory
T
his space is provided to display your character’s accumu­
lated Glory. When your character is knighted, he gains a 
massive 1,000 Glory points. If your Gamemaster practic­
es the custom of The Leap (see page 35), then your Glory may be 
increased by 10 more.
Stories
If you have followed instructions this far you now have a 
character ready to play. The character is a squire, 18 or so years 
old, possessing the connections, skills, and reputation necessary 
to become a knight immediately. Each player should now take 
some time to reflect on his character and prepare a little presen­
tation, possibly with a little history and a psychological interpre­
tation of his or her personality.
“This is Sir Adalhart, a household squire of Duke Thierry 
d’Ardennes. He is 22 years old, dresses very well, and has pale 
skin and a deep voice. He is notably [scores of 16+ values]. 
He has the Glory of an ordinary knight. He is proud of the 
fact that he is the oldest of the four brothers who make up 
the leaders of his family clan. His father, the famous knight 
known as Berenger du Faucon, died heroically some years 
ago at the battle of [name].” 
Player-Knight History
As a player, you are encouraged to record the game history 
and significant facts of your character. You do not have to write 
things down, but you should. You lose much of the long-term 
impact of playing this game if you don’t. Paladin an epic, 47-
year campaign, with knights staking their lives for Glory. Their 
play-lives are worth the minor effort of a written synopsis for 
each of their adventures.
After experiencing several adventures with a number of 
characters, you will begin to sense the history as your characters 
grow into the story.


--- PDF PAGE 42 (Rulebook Page 42) ---
41
In order to avoid the problem of acceptance, some female 
knights operate disguised as men. A woman disguised as a 
knight has many problems retaining her secret. When a wom­
an masquerading as a man has revealed her true gender, anoth­
er problem often presents itself: a lord to knight her. Reluctant 
lords may never accept the situation, in which case she must find 
another lord. Alternatively, a lord may set some difficult quest to 
be completed before he grants his permission.
Death and Retirement
Roland feels that his death is near; 
Through his ears his brains are seeping.
— The Song of Roland, CLXVIII
T
here are two ways in which a Player-knight can end his 
career: he dies, or he retires. A character may leave active 
play at any time — preferably with his lord’s permission 
— and retire as a hermit or monk.
A more elegant way of retiring is when a Player-knight is 
promoted to a position of great power, like count, lay bishop, or 
Royal officer. When such a character has become too powerful, 
the Gamemaster himself may require a character to quit active 
play and turn him into an un-played or Gamemaster character.
A Second Character
Every player should have a second character ready to play. 
Sometimes the primary character is incapacitated, unable to 
continue the adventure. In such a case the second character 
comes into play, being found nearby or riding up from the rear 
in time to join the expedition and avenge his kinsman’s injury. 
An alternative to playing another knight is to play the squire of 
another player’s knight. 
Because the game is family oriented, players should make 
this second character part of the same family. The coat of arms 
and history will be similar, and the new character will know 
most of the things that the first one knew. 
Sometimes the secondary character becomes more inter­
esting than the initial one, and Gamemasters ought to allow a 
changeover. After all, the point is to have fun.
Salvation
The heavens themselves mourn for Roland’s death: 
In Frankland there is a most terrible storm,
A tempest with thunder and strong winds,
Rain and hail in great quantity.
Lightning strikes again and again
And the whole earth, in truth, begins to quake.
From Saint Michael’s Mount to Seinz,
From Besançon to the port of Wissant,
There is no house whose walls do not collapse.
At high noon a great darkness gathers; 
There is a light only when the sky is rent.
No one could see it without a feeling of dread.
— The Song of Roland, CX
When a knight character dies or definitively retires, the 
player makes a special die roll against a score called Salvation, 
to see if the character is worthy of going to Heaven immediate­
ly (even if he is not yet actually dead), or must spend time in 
Purgatory cleansing his soul. This score depends on his status: 
Table 1–16: Salvation Score
Starting Value 
Lowest Religious Trait
Passions
Amor 
+1 per point over 15 (max. +5)
Honor 
+1 per point over 15 (max. +5)
Love [Charlemagne] 
+1 per point over 15 (max. +5)
Love [God] 
+1 per point over 15 (max. +5)
Deeds
Paladin
+5
Died during a holy war or crusade 
or retired as a monk or a hermit
+5
Per pagan personally converted
+1 (max. +5)
Other deeds as determined by the 
Gamemaster
As determined
Critical: Sanctification if Salvation 20+ and successful 
Standing [Church] roll
Success: Heaven
Failure: Purgatory
Fumble: Hell if Salvation 5 or less, otherwise Purgatory
Apart from indicating whether a character is allowed en­
trance to Heaven or not, a successful Salvation roll grants two 
benefits for the player’s next character: 
nn The new character may take one score of his choice 
(a statistic, trait, passion, standing or skill) from to 
previous character, with a maximum value equal to 
the Salvation score.
n
n He receives an extra roll on Table 1–15: Frankish 
Birth Gifts.
Hell and Damnation
The knightly way of life puts souls in peril. Almost inevi­
tably, a knight will violate the commandments from the Bible, 
especially the one which says not to kill. Knights accept this, it 
is the price of their prerogatives. Many make generous donations 
to the Church on their deathbed as a way of doing penance for 
their sins. In the game, though, this has little beneficial effect on 
their Salvation. On the other hand, a character going to Hell has 
no further negative implications.
Death and Retirement


--- PDF PAGE 43 (Rulebook Page 43) ---
Chapter One: Character Creation
42
Canonization
To qualify for sainthood, a character must have at least 15 
points of bonuses on Table 1–16, roll a critical on his Salvation 
roll, and make a successful Standing [Church] roll. 
As a reward, the benefits for the player’s next character, 
mentioned above, are increased: 
nn He is allowed to transfer two scores of his choice (a at­
tributes, traits, passions, standings or skills) from the 
previous character to the new one, with a maximum 
value equal to the Salvation score.
nn He may roll once on Table 1–17: Frankish Blessing.
Table 1–17: Frankish Blessing 
1d20 Result
Blessing
1–3
Protection: You have a natural armor which absorbs 
1 point from all types of damage.
4
Horse Whisperer: You are able to communicate with 
horses on a very basic level.
5
Immunity to poisons: You take only half normal 
damage from poisons.
6–8
Prosperity: During the Winter Phase, you receive +3 
to all income and harvest rolls.
9–11
Fertility: During the Winter Phase, you receive +5 
on the Childbirth Table.
12–13
Eternal Youth: You do not start aging until the age of 
35 (instead of 30).
14
Immunity to fire: You take only half normal damage 
from heat and fire.
15
Bird Affinity: You understand the rudimentary lan­
guage of birds.
16–17
Premonition: On a successful Love [God] roll, you 
may actively provoke prophetic dreams and omens.
18–19
Healing hands: Once per week, you may heal 1d3 
Hit Points on another Christian character by laying 
on hands.
20
Truth sense: You may detect intentional lies on a suc­
cessful 1d20 roll versus Glory bonus.
New Characters
W
hen creating a new character, a player should chose a 
member from his previous character’s, or his compan­
ion’s, family, if any. He continues the lineage and fully 
experiences the dynastic aspect of the game.
Alternatively, and with the Gamemaster’s approval, a player 
may create a completely new character from another homeland 
and possibly even from another culture. In this case, he can either 
play a Frank who, for some reason, was raised amidst another 
people, like Vivien of Monbranc, or the other Vivien (William 
Shortnose’s nephew) who was exchanged with the Moors to lib­
erate his imprisoned father. Or else he may be a foreigner raised 
in Frankland, like Ogier the Dane or the Gascon prince Sancho 
Lupus, who were initially both hostages at the Frankish court 
before becoming paladins.
Character From the Same 
or Companion’s Family
Apart from possible Salvation or Canonization benefits, a 
newly created character in the same family as his predecessor in­
herits several things from the previous character. 
Companions swear to hold all things, even their families, in 
common. A new character may inherit goods and bonuses from 
the companion of his previous character. A player may choose 
whether to use the character’s father’s, or father’s companion’s 
values when creating his character. 
Family
Family Features: The player may choose which family (fa­
ther’s or companion’s) to have been brought up in. He gains all 
the benefits (and disadvantages) of that family. This decision 
may affect Cultural and Homeland modifiers, below. 
Youth
Father’s Class: The father’s class at the time of his death, 
or at the knighting of his son, determines the training the new 
character receives. 
Cultural Modifier: It’s assumed that the character is 
brought up in a Frankish home, but a companion may have come 
from another culture.
Homeland Modifier: Use the homeland of the household 
in which he grew up. 
Attributes
APP: Beauty reflects nobility and worth. Newly generated 
characters may modify their initial score by adding a bonus equal 
to the previous character’s Glory/1,000 (max. +10).
Valor: The Franks consider Valor to be hereditary. 
Therefore, a new character may add a Valorous bonus equal to 
the previous character’s Valorous –15. 
Knighthood
Initial Glory: A new Player-knight starts play with Glory 
equal to 1/10th that of the previous character.
Possessions
Equipment: The deceased character may pass down special 
equipment, treasure, and goods to the new character, in addition 
to the results of the Table 1–15: Frankish Birth Gifts. The char­
acter starts with the same equipment as the previous character 
was using.
Manors: The new character may inherit allodial manors or 
manors that were granted to his father. Inheriting manors may 
only be done with the Gamemaster’s approval — the lord or the 
family may have a different candidate for the manor. 


--- PDF PAGE 44 (Rulebook Page 44) ---
43
Character From a 
Completely Different Family
If the character comes from a family that has not already 
been described, the player must create the family, just like was 
New Characters
done at the beginning of the campaign. The new character has 
no connection (or at best, a vague one) to the previous character 
and gains no benefit from it. The character gains initial Glory 
from Tables 1–4 and 1–7. 


--- PDF PAGE 45 (Rulebook Page 45) ---


--- PDF PAGE 46 (Rulebook Page 46) ---
45
Chapter Two: The Past
T
he information given in the chronology below contains a 
history of the Franks, as well as a procedure to generate a 
family history for your first character. It is, in itself, a way 
to familiarize yourself with the Frankish past in general.
Historical events are in Bold. 
Many summarized events are taken from the chansons 
de geste. Chansons are identified in the entries below in Bold 
Italics. To allow for a fluid diachronic reading, if the entry is a 
continuation from a previous year, it is listed as [←previous year]. 
If it is continued in a succeeding year, it is marked [→next year]. 
If the story is picked up in another Chanson, the listing will be 
marked [←previous year, Name] or [→next year, Name] The end 
of a story is marked with a n.
In between are the notes and tables which enable starting 
players to roll up a short family history for their grandfather and 
father.
Your Family History
Your Grandfather
T
he family history below starts in 723, the year before your 
father was born. Your grandfather was a wealthy warrior 
in the service of Charles Martel, the Mayor of the Palace 
of the weak King Thierry IV. Your grandfather was a knight of 
notable fame and starts his career at 2,500 Glory.
Many raids and battles generate a certain amount of Hate 
against particular nations. If an ancestor dies in battle against a 
certain enemy, his direct descendant gains an extra 1d6 of Hate 
[Enemy]. At the end of his life your grandfather passes on his 
Hates to his son, your father, if their value exceeds 10. Likewise, 
your father passes on his Hates that exceed 10 to you. 
Your Father
Your father (born in 724) was also a notable knight, living 
in the Ardennes and serving under King Pepin. His starting 
Glory is 2,500 plus 1/10th of your grandfather’s total Glory.
Charles Martel
King Thierry IV (Theuderic) “reigned” from 721 to his death 
in 737, and he was not succeeded by anyone until Chilperic III 
(the last Merovingian king) in 743, who was deposed in 751, 
when Pepin the Short was finally anointed King of the Franks. 
All the while, the real power was in the hands of Charles 
Martel, the Mayor of the Palace and Duke of the Franks. As 
such, he was in command of the royal army.
Charles Martel was a tough and talented military com­
mander, who celebrated many victories against the Saxons, 
Moors and other enemies. He is most famous for defeating 
the Moors at the Battle of Poitiers (or Battle of Tours) in 732.
As the de facto ruler of the Franks, he laid out the basis for 
the concept of knighthood, and forged a solid alliance with 
the Pope.
Pepin the Short
Son of Charles Martel, he succeeded his father as Mayor of 
the Palace, but later he deposed King Chilperic III and was 
anointed King of the Franks in 751.
During his political and military career, he had many 
problems with his brother Carloman and half-brother Grifo. 
As a king, Pepin waged many offensive wars in which he 
forced the submission of the southern duchies of Burgundy, 
Aquitaine, Provence and Septimania.
King Pepin confirmed the pre-eminence of the Frankish 
people in Western Europe. Inside his realm he promoted feu­
dalism, vassalage and the use of knights as heavy cavalry.
What exactly happened during Pepin’s marriage with 
Bertrada Broadfoot and how their son Charlemagne was born 
is known to only a few people, and this episode of history is 
subject to the wildest rumors and speculations.


--- PDF PAGE 47 (Rulebook Page 47) ---
Chapter Two: The Past
46
Standard Ancestor Events Tables
The tables below are based on your Frankish character be­
ing born in 746 in the Ardennes, and entering the game at age 18 
in 767, the beginning of a standard Paladin campaign.
While tracing the path of your ancestors, you will need the 
two standard tables below. For every year for which there is no 
specific table, roll once on the Ordinary Year Events table below. 
For every battle, siege or raid your ancestor participated in, you 
should use the standard Combat Survival table unless indicated 
otherwise.
Table 2–1: Ordinary Year Events
1d20 Result
Event
1
Died of a random cause.
2–17
Served garrison duty.
18–19
Performed a memorable and glorious act. (50 Glory).
20
Defended his homeland during a Saxon (or Frisian) raid.
Raid: For every raid, roll once on the Combat Survival ta­
ble below to determine the character’s destiny. If he survived, he 
gains +1d3 Hate [Saxons/Frisians].
Table 2–2: Combat Survival
1d20 Result*
Combat Result
0
He died with great Glory (+1,000 Glory).
1
He died without additional Glory.
2
He was crippled and retired into a monastery, where 
he died peacefully 1d20 years later.
3
He was captured and taken to the attackers’ home­
land. He never returned.
4–5
He survived and accomplished a heroic act 
(+100 Glory).
6–20
He survived.
* Rolls for battles are at –1.
Glory: The standard amounts of combat Glory gained are 
100 for a battle, 50 for a siege and 25 for a raid or skirmish. These 
points are doubled if your ancestor fought on the victorious side.
Table 2–3: Miscellaneous Death Causes 
1d20 Result
Cause of Death
Male
1–3
Battle
4–6
Family feud
7–8
Enemy raid
9–10
Hunting accident
11–13
Accident
14
Disappeared
15–18
Illness
19–20
Old age
Phase –2: Feudal Anarchy
T
he years 700–722 are included as a background; there are 
no consequences for your family. 
Anno 700
Doon de Mayence: Guy of Mayence, Lord of Montblois on 
the Rhine, accidentally kills a hermit while hunting. As penance, 
he takes the holy man’s place. When Guy fails to come home his 
seneschal, Archibald, proposes to marry Marguerie, Guy’s “wid­
ow,” but she refuses. Archibald then accuses her of adultery and 
the murder of her husband. She is imprisoned together with Sir 
Baldwin, who wanted to defend his lady’s honor.
Archibald orders a knight to go out into the forest and kill 
Guy’s three sons. The man slays two out of three, but is himself 
stabbed to death by young Doon. The young squire wanders 
around the Ardennes Forest and finally finds his father, living 
as a hermit. He tells his father what happened. When Guy takes 
up his weapons to avenge the death of his sons, an angel strikes 
him with blindness. Guy and Doon live in the forest for a few 
years. [→705] 
Anno 701
Floris and Blancheflour: Felix, the pagan King of Asturias, 
conducts a slave raid and captures a band of Christian pilgrims, 
among whom is a beautiful, pregnant young widow. This wom­
an becomes the personal servant of the queen, who is also preg­
nant. Both women give birth on the same day: the pagan lady 
has a boy, Floris, while the Christian lady has a girl, Blancheflour. 
Both children are raised together at Felix’ court, where they 
study diligently. [→717] 
Anno 705
Doon de Mayence: [←700] One day, Doon kills an insolent 
knight carrying a letter from Archibald. He reads it and learns 
about his mother’s distress. Doon rides back to Montblois to 
defend her.
On his way he is welcomed at his uncle’s castle, where he 
kills a robber knight in a joust. The knight’s sons want to avenge 
their father and the next day they attack Doon in their own cas­
tle, but Doon escapes unharmed.
When Doon finally arrives at Montblois, he demands a 
duel against Archibald to defend his mother’s honor. Archibald 
names Droart as his champion. Doon defeats Droart in a single 
combat, but the champion and his master Archibald flee to the 
city of Mayence.
Doon pursues them but is taken prisoner. In prison, he 
meets the loyal Sir Baldwin. Waudry, the jail warden, takes 
Doon’s side and frees the prisoners. Together the three men sur­
prise Archibald and his men and slay them all.
1d20 Result
Cause of Death
Female
1–3
In childbirth
4
Family feud
5
Enemy raid
6
Hunting accident
7–10
Accident
11
Disappeared
12–16
Illness
17–20
Old age


--- PDF PAGE 48 (Rulebook Page 48) ---
47
Count Guy becomes the abbot of the monastery founded 
on the spot where he lived as a hermit, at Echternach. Doon be­
comes Count of Mayence, and Baldwin and Waudry receive rich 
fiefs. [→706] 
Anno 706
Doon de Mayence: [←705] Doon wins a royal tournament 
but forgets to pay homage to the king, who insults him. With his 
relatives, and in full battle outfit, the angry Doon presents him­
self at court and demands reparation. The king refuses to give 
him the lands of Vauclere, which are within Saxon territory. As 
they prepare for a duel, an angel descends from heaven and or­
ders them to make peace. By mutual consent, the king pretends 
to go to Rome with Doon and his men disguised as pilgrims.
In truth, they all head for Vauclere. Assisted by the king, 
Garin of Monglane, and the axe-wielding semi-giant Robastre, 
Doon presents himself at the Saxon court. As it happens, the 
Saxons are at war with the Danes because they refused to marry 
princess Flandrine to Danemont, the Danish king. Doon pro­
poses to rid them of their enemy if the Saxons consent to giving 
him Vauclere and the hand of Flandrine, daughter of Helissent 
of Flanders and Aubigan, the Saxon Lord of Vauclere. At night, 
Helissent brings her daughter to Doon’s tent and secretly mar­
ries her to the count.
The next day, the king, Doon and Garin attack the Danes, 
but they are taken prisoner. Robastre follows them, and, dis­
guised as a minstrel, enters the Danes’ castle. He manages to 
liberate the Frankish prisoners and together they massacre the 
Danes. Doon, now Count of Vauclere, orders the Saxon inhabi­
tants to be converted.
Flandrine gives Doon twelve sons, who all go to serve the 
Merovingian king at court. None of them, however, accept fiefs 
from their father, preferring to conquer their own in the lands of 
the pagans. [→729, Gaufrey] 
Anno 709
Enfances Garin de Monglane: The queen falls in love with Sir 
Garin. The jealous king forces Garin to play a game of chess, which 
Garin must win to stay alive. Garin stops the game just before check­
mating his liege and asks for the fief of a rebellious vassal.
Soon afterward, Sir Garin falls in love with a woman 
named Mabile, who is unhappily betrothed to Duke Huon of 
Auvergne. Garin kills Huon, but Mabile is captured by Gaufroy 
of Monglane. An enchanter and the loyal Robastre help Garin 
capture Monglane and win Mabile back. At the bidding of an 
angel, Garin gives his inherited land (Aquitaine) to his brother 
Gerin, who marries Mabile. [→754, Aymeri de Narbonne] 
Anno 711
Spain: Saracens from Northern Africa invade the Visigothic 
kingdom of the Iberian Peninsula.
Phase –1: Charles Martel
Customs
F
eudalism: Charles Martel introduces feudalism as a 
system of land ownership in which small land holders 
pledge fealty to an overlord in return for protection. 
Locally, the great magnates rule by “Might Makes Right” and 
don’t hesitate to seize their neighbor’s land by force if the oc­
casion presents itself. 
Knighthood: If a man can equip himself with armor, weap­
ons, and a horse, he can ride with other heavy cavalry under the 
command of Charles Martel or his officers. This is the beginning 
of knighthood — those closest to the Mayor are recognized and 
given honors. 
Heraldry: Knights may use whatever design they wish on 
their shields. Most “heraldry” just a plain color, or a simple de­
sign (crosses are favored) on the shield. 
Women: They are the property of the family patriarchs, 
who marry them at will to advance the interests of their House.
Fashion: Nobles wear the traditional Frankish linen shirt, 
a knotted or pinned cloak, trousers, thick stockings and san­
dals. Elegance is expressed by superficial Roman influences like 
brooches and sashes. Men have long hair, but shave and have nei­
ther mustache nor beard.
Warfare
Armor: Ring mail body armor and an open conical helmet 
with a nasal protection (8 points) is the standard for knights. 
Round shields (6 points) are made of leather-covered wood with 
an iron boss in the center.
Weapons: Knights wield a spear and an iron sword, and 
perhaps an axe, mace or hammer.
Horses: Chargers are rare and expensive. Poor knights 
fight on rouncies or sometimes coursers. Horses are unarmored.
Castles: Wooden stockades, perhaps surrounded by a ditch, 
are prevalent. A few cities have preserved their Roman walls, but 
stone castles are unknown. 
Levy Troops: Free men present themselves at their lord’s 
army mostly as lightly armored cavalry, spearmen, or unarmored 
archers.
Anno 714
Frankland: Birth of Pepin the Short, son of Charles Martel.
Anno 717
Floris and Blancheflour: [←701] King Felix is worried about 
his son, Floris, who is obviously in love with the Christian slave 
girl Blancheflour, so he decides to send his son to Andalusia. This 
separation is painful for both Floris and Blancheflour. King Felix 
intercepts his son’s love letters and becomes convinced that the 
girl has bewitched his son, so he sells her to Saracen merchants. 
She is taken to Babylon and is locked up in a tower serving in the 
Phase –1: Charles Martel


--- PDF PAGE 49 (Rulebook Page 49) ---
Chapter Two: The Past
48
Sultan’s personal harem. When Floris arrives back at his father’s 
court, Felix presents his son with Blancheflour’s fake tomb. In 
total despair, Floris tries to kill himself. Taking pity, the queen 
then reveals what really happened to Blancheflour and Floris 
immediately sets out to find her. His mother gives him a ring 
which protects him from harm, and his father gives him a price­
less golden cup to buy back his lover. [→718] 
Anno 718
Floris and Blancheflour: [←717] Merchants tell Floris that 
Blancheflour has been sold to the Sultan, so he crosses the sea 
and travels to Babylon. He gives the golden cup to the tower’s 
gate keeper and invites him to play chess. Floris loses but keeps 
raising the stakes, until he finally wins and forces the honor­
able guard to let him into the tower. Inside Floris finds his 
Blancheflour but they are discovered by the Sultan, who wants 
to put them to death. When Floris and Blancheflour tell him 
their love story, the Sultan and his vassals are genuinely moved. 
The Sultan sets them free, knights Floris for his valor and cele­
brates their marriage. [→719] 
Anno 719
Floris and Blancheflour: [←718] On their return in Asturias, 
Floris and Blancheflour find that Floris’ parents have both died. 
For the love of his wife, Floris has his people and himself baptized 
and he is crowned the first Christian King of Asturias. [→720] 
Anno 720
Floris and Blancheflour: [←719] Birth of Princess Bertrada, 
daughter of King Floris of Asturias and Queen Blancheflour. 
[→735, Berthe aux grands pieds] 
This tale is about the young king Floris
And the marvellous Blancheflour
Who was the mother of Bertrada Broadfoot.
Later Bertrada was married in Frankland
She gave birth to Charlemagne
Who ruled over all Franks.
— Floris and Blancheflour
Septimania: The Moors invade Septimania and capture 
the rich city of Narbonne after a short siege.
Anno 721
Frankland: The Merovingian King Chilperic II dies and is 
succeeded by the adolescent Thierry IV.
Anno 722
No noteworthy events.
Anno 723
Saxony: Charles Martel destroys the Saxon holy trees near 
Geismar and Fritzlar.
Your grandfather’s career as a knight starts here.
Grandfather Events Table (723)
1d20 Result
Event
1–10
Your grandfather served garrison duty.
11–20
He participated in the successful raiding campaign 
against the Saxons. Roll on Table 2–2: Combat Survival. 
If grandfather survived, he gains 1d3 Hate [Saxons].
Anno 724
Frankland: The Pope sends Charles Martel a reliquary 
with the keys and chains of Saint Peter.
Your father is born.
Anno 725
Septimania, Provence: The Moors renew their incursions 
into Septimania and Provence. They capture the cities of Nîmes 
and Carcassonne, and raid towns along the Saône and the Rhone all 
the way up to Autun (Burgundy). Rumor has it that Duke Odo of 
Aquitaine paid the Moors to raid Frankland instead of Aquitaine.
Grandfather Events Table (725)
1d20 Result
Event
1
He died of a random cause.
2–10
He served garrison duty.
11–20
He participated in the unsuccessful defense of Autun. 
Roll on Table 2–2: Combat Survival. If he survived 
the siege, he gains 1d3 Hate [Moors].
Anno 726
No noteworthy events.
Anno 727
No noteworthy events.
Anno 728
Saxony: Charles Martel campaigns in Saxony and Frisia.
Aquitaine: He also raids Aquitaine, where Duke Odo 
claimed his independence and allied himself with a wali from 
Spain, himself in revolt against Emir Abdul Rahman.
Grandfather Events Table (728)
1d20 Result
Event
1
He died of a random cause.
2–10
He served garrison duty.
11–15
He fought the rebellious Duke Odo of Aquitaine. 
Roll at –1 on Table 2–2: Combat Survival.
16–20
He fought in Saxony or Frisia. Roll on Table 2–2: 
Combat Survival. If grandfather survived, he gains 
1d3 Hate [Saxons].
Anno 729
Gaufrey: [←706, Doon de Mayence] Garin of Monglane asks 
his friend Doon for help in his war with Gloriant the Saxon. 
Garin’s sons, Gerard, Milo, and Renier, have already been taken 
prisoner. Doon and his sons leave for Monglane. When they ar­
rive, Garin conducts a sortie, but he is taken prisoner together with 


--- PDF PAGE 50 (Rulebook Page 50) ---
49
his vassal Robastre. Godfrid and his brothers attack the Saxons in 
the rear. Some Saxons flee to their ships, where they meet Doon 
in battle. The Count of Mayence liberates the squires, but their 
father Garin is taken away. All alone, Doon pursues the Saxons, 
who easily capture him. Doon’s and Garin’s sons finally settle in 
Vauclere to make a plan to rescue their fathers.
Taken to the Barbel Tower, Doon and Garin receive unex­
pected help from the Saxon princess Fleurdepine. She is in love 
with a Frankish knight called Berart of Mondidier, who happens 
to be Doon’s nephew. Before leaving with Gloriant and his ally 
Machabray (Fleurdepine’s father), the young princess orders the 
construction of a secret tunnel between the prison and her tower.
Meanwhile, the Franks arrive at Grailmont Castle, held by the 
Saxon Lord Guitant who is at war with his rival, Quinart. Robastre 
pretends to be Grailmont’s dead lord (who is still out fighting for his 
lord, Gloriant). Robastre is brought into the castle, which he cap­
tures at night. All pagan warriors are converted or killed. The lady 
of the castle, Fauquette, is baptized and married to Grifo. Guitant 
returns back home, refuses baptism and is slain by Godfrid.
Quinart lays siege to Grailmont. The Franks ride out to do 
battle, kill Quinart and convert the remaining Saxons. Robastre 
is wounded, but healed by one of Fauquette’s magic potions. To 
celebrate their victory, Garin marries Clarisse, and Gerard mar­
ries Avissa (aunts of Duke Naymo).
Godfrid leads the Franks to the south. Grifo leaves the 
army, pretending to be ill, and travels to the Frankish court. He 
obtains the title of count and the permission to build a castle 
at Troyes, which he names Hautefeuille. He tells lies about his 
brothers, claiming their victories against the Saxons as his own.
Gloriant, Machabray and his daughter arrive at the Saxon 
stronghold of Amandon, where they are welcomed by Lord 
Turfanie. Fleurdepine is allowed to return to the Barbel Tower, 
together with Gloriant’s nephew Malprin. Berart of Mondidier 
and some other Frankish knights are sent into Saxony to help 
Garin and Doon. They arrive at the Barbel Tower to do battle 
with the Saxons, but they are defeated. In the Saxon prison, they 
meet Doon and Garin. [→730] 
Grandfather Events Table (729)
1d20 Result
Event
1
He died of a random cause.
2–10
He served garrison duty.
11–15
He participated in the first (undecided) battle against 
Gloriant of Saxony near the city of Vauclere. Roll at 
–1 on Table 2–2: Combat Survival. If grandfather 
survived, he gains 1d3 Hate [Saxons].
16–20
He fought at the battle of the Barbel Tower. Roll at 
–1 on Table 2–2: Combat Survival. If grandfather 
survived, he gains 1d6 Hate [Saxons].
Anno 730
Gaufrey: [←729] At the Barbel Tower, Fleurdepine sets the 
imprisoned Franks free. They kill Machabray, but Gloriant escapes 
and assembles his troops to besiege the castle. Inside, Fleurdepine 
is baptized and married to her Berart. Robastre arrives at the 
Barbel Tower and kills Gloriant in battle. After the Saxons surren­
der he converts and marries Lady Mandagloire, Gloriant’s widow. 
A few years later, Old Doon retires as a hermit. [→740] 
Auberi de Bourgogne: Aubery (the nephew of Garin of 
Lorraine and the great-uncle of Naymo of Bavaria) is persecuted 
by his stepmother and evil uncles. Finally, he prevails over them, 
saves Bavaria from an Avar attack, marries Guibourc, Duchess of 
Bavaria, and avenges himself. [→731] 
Anno 731
Auberi de Bourgogne: [←730] Aubery unfairly suspects his 
wife of infidelity, but later realizes her innocence. While he is pur­
suing a wild boar into an enemy’s land, he is cornered by attackers 
until he is rescued by his nephew, Gaselin. Aubery betroths his 
step-daughter Senehaut to Gaselin and pardons his enemies.
The powerful Sir Lambert of Oridon lusts after Senehaut 
and plots to kidnap her. He locks Aubery in a tower with two 
young maidens and later accuses him of raping them, hoping 
to blackmail him. Fearing death, Aubery submits to Lambert’s 
wishes and is forced to trick Senehaut into going to a monastery 
where Lambert is waiting for her. Once he has kept his word, 
Aubery promises to come and rescue his furious step-daughter.
Sir Lambert marries Senehaut against her will, but she de­
lays consummating the marriage and is rescued by Aubery and 
Gaselin. Aubery receives troops from Charles Martel and besieges 
Oridon, but the villain escapes the siege through an underground 
tunnel and arranges for Charles to reconcile him with Aubery. 
The Mayor of the Palace forces Aubery to forgive Lambert and 
grants the traitor safe passage through Frankland. [→732] 
Grandfather Events Table (731)
1d20 Result
Event
1
He died of a random cause.
2–15
He served garrison duty.
16–20
He fought with Charles Martel at the siege of Oridon. 
Roll on Table 2–2: Combat Survival.
Anno 732
Auberi de Bourgogne: [←731] Aubery sets off for St. Denis 
with Lambert and even changes clothes with him to protect his 
former rival. They are ambushed by Gaselin, who attacks the 
man he thinks is Lambert, but in doing so deals a fatal blow to 
Aubery (who forgives him). Lambert escapes, making several at­
tempts on Gaselin’s life, and buys the goodwill of Charles Martel.
When Gaselin finally kills Lambert, Charles Martel accus­
es him of violating the royal safe-passage. Gaselin swears he was 
unaware of it and wins a judicial combat to prove it. Finally he 
receives a fief in Bavaria from Charles and marries Senehaut. 
They have a son named Naymo, who later becomes a duke and 
Charlemagne’s most respected councilor. Gaselin atones for his 
accidental murder through charity.n
Doon de Nanteuil: Charles Martel demands Doon of 
Nanteuil give him a golden cart wheel, which he refuses. Bertrand 
Phase –1: Charles Martel


--- PDF PAGE 51 (Rulebook Page 51) ---
Chapter Two: The Past
50
of Bavaria is sent to Doon’s castle to negotiate, but things get out 
of hand and Bertrand accidentally kills Doon’s cousin, Berart of 
Mondidier. A violent feud is inevitable. Doon, aided by his brother 
Gerard of Roussillon, is betrayed by his Saxon allies and is obliged 
to seek refuge in Apulia, where he becomes a monk. [→734] 
Frankland: A large Moorish army invades Provence and 
Burgundy, where they sack the monastery of Luxueil. From 
there, they head towards Neustria. In response, the combined 
army of Charles Martel and Odo of Aquitaine (who called on 
his former enemy for help) meet the Moors at the Battle of 
Poitiers, where Emir Abdul Rahman is killed. Charles Martel 
captures the Moorish baggage and obtains an immense booty, 
part of which he redistributes among his loyal vassals.
Grandfather Events Table (732)
1d20 Result
Event
1
He died of a random cause. 
2–5
He served garrison duty.
6–20
He fought at the battle of Poitiers. Roll on the table be­
low. If he survives, he gains 1d3 Hate [Moors] and you 
get an extra roll on Table 1–15: Frankish Birth Gifts.
Battle of Poitiers Events Table
1d20 Result
Event
1
Your grandfather died with great Glory. (1,400 Glory)
2–11
He died. (400 Glory)
12
He was captured and taken to Spain. He never returned.
13
He survived and accomplished a heroic act. (500 Glory)
14–19
He survived. (400 Glory)
20
He survived and killed the leader of the Moorish 
invasion, Emir Abdul Rahman, in personal combat. 
(900 Glory)
Anno 733
Daurel and Beton: Bevis of Hantone, Duke of Brabant, is 
the companion of Count Guy, Lord of Castle Aspremont. When 
Bevis marries Princess Ermengard, King Thierry IV’s sister, Guy 
becomes jealous and plans to murder his companion. First he 
tries to seduce Ermengard, but she rebuffs him. [→734] 
Aquitaine: Duke Odo of Aquitaine dies and is succeeded 
by his son, Hunold, who is still an adolescent.


--- PDF PAGE 52 (Rulebook Page 52) ---
51
Anno 734
Daurel and Beton: [←733] On the same day that his vassal 
Daurel has a son, Duke Bevis’ son is baptized Beton. [→735] 
Doon de Nanteuil: [←732] After having spent two years as 
a monk in Apulia, Doon of Nanteuil returns to Frankland and 
accepts peace with Charles Martel. [→ 764, Aye d’Avignon] 
Lombardy: Charles Martel sends his son Pepin to Pavia, 
where he serves a year as a squire at the court of the Lombard king.
Anno 735
Aquitaine: Charles Martel conquers Bordeaux and Blaye. 
Hunold of Aquitaine pledges fealty.
Berthe aux grands pieds: [←720, Floris and Blancheflour] 
Young princess Bertrada, daughter of King Floris of Asturias and 
Queen Blancheflour, is taken to Paris to be married to Charles 
Martel’s second son, Pepin the Short. But Margiste, the lady-in-wait­
ing who takes care of the young princess, notices that Bertrada and 
her own daughter Aliste resemble each other as if they were twins, so 
she substitutes Aliste for Bertrada the day after the marriage.
Margiste orders Tibert, a forester, to take the real Bertrada out 
to the woods and kill her, but the princess is saved by a sergeant called 
Morant, who lets her escape into the Forest of Le Mans. There she 
is taken in by the swineherd Simon and his wife Constance. [→736] 
Huon d’Auvergne: Huon II of Auvergne is falsely accused 
of having seduced a Merovingian princess. As a punishment, 
Charles Martel sends him to Hell to demand tribute in the name 
of the Franks. In reality, the king just wants an opportunity to 
seduce Huon’s wife. [→738] 
Girart de Roussillon: To thank Charles Martel for his aid 
in defending Rome, the Emperor of Byzantium wishes to marry 
his daughters Bertha and Elissent to Charles and his powerful 
vassal Gerard of Roussillon, Duke of Burgundy. When the girls 
arrive in Frankland, Charles prefers the younger and prettier 
Elissent to Bertha, and arranges an exchange with Gerard. In 
return, Gerard’s fief of Burgundy becomes a free allod. Princess 
Elissent gives Gerard a ring as a token of her sincere affection.
Charles is jealous of Gerard’s independence and he finds a 
pretext to attack him. He takes Roussillon by treason and defies 
Gerard to do battle, but God, by a divine intervention, orders 
the lords to make peace, which they do. [→736] 
Daurel and Beton: [←734] One day, as Duke Bevis is hunting 
a great boar in the Ardennes Forest, his companion Guy stabs him. 
The dying duke forgives his jealous friend and tells him how to con­
ceal his crime, asking him in return to raise Beton as his son. When 
the duke’s body is found, Ermengard accuses Guy but nobody be­
lieves her. Guy bribes Charles Martel and obtains Ermengard’s hand.
The suspicious Ermengard sends the baby Beton to Poitiers, 
to be raised anonymously by a gentle woman named Aiceline. 
When her new husband asks her where the boy is, Ermengard 
refuses to tell him, even after he hits her in the face.
Beton is betrayed by a fisherman. Guy locks up Ermengard 
and prepares to go and kill Beton. When Sir Daurel hears of Guy’s 
plans, the loyal minstrel-vassal immediately rides to Poitiers and 
substitutes his own son for Beton, exclaiming: “My son shall die; 
my liege shall be saved!” Lord Guy arrives and smashes the baby’s 
head against a pillar. Daurel buries his son’s body and takes little 
Beton across the sea. His wife dies of grief. [→736] 
Grandfather Events Table (735)
1d20 Result
Event
1
He died of a random cause.
2–5
He served garrison duty.
6–12
He fought with Charles Martel against Gerard of 
Roussillon at the interrupted battle, where he wit­
nessed the divine burning of two battle standards. 
(50 Glory) Roll on Table 2–2: Combat Survival.
13–15
He was a false witness against Huon d’Auvergne at 
his trial for adultery. You lose one point of Just.
16–20
He fought with Charles Martel at the successful siege 
of Bordeaux. Roll on Table 2–2: Combat Survival.
Anno 736
Berthe aux grands pieds: [←735] After nine months 
Bertrada gives birth to a boy named Charlemagne. Together 
they live in exile in the Forest of Le Mans for nine years. For fear 
of her child’s life, Bertrada swears to keep her true identity a se­
cret and reveal it only if her honor is threatened. Meanwhile, the 
false Queen Aliste gives Pepin two sons: Heudri and Rainfroi, 
who grow up at court as princes. [→744] 
Girart de Roussillon: [←735] Two of Gerard’s cousins 
avenge the killing of Gerard’s father, Doon, and his uncle on 
Thierry of Scania and his sons when they return from exile. 
In response, Charles Martel vainly tries to ambush Gerard. All 
peace negotiations fail and a battle takes place in which Gerard 
is defeated. A hermit warns Gerard that his soul is in danger, so 
Gerard withdraws into the Ardennes Forest with his wife to live 
in poverty. A divine vision cures him of his pride. [→737] 
Daurel and Beton: [←735] Daurel and Beton arrive in 
Babylon. Daurel enters the Sultan’s service and Beton is raised at 
the Saracen court. [→752] 
Lion de Bourges: When Herpin of Bourges is unjustly ac­
cused of treason at court, he kills Glariant (Ganelon’s uncle) and 
is subsequently banished with his pregnant wife, Alice. [→737] 
Aquitaine: Charles Martel successfully raids the lands of 
the refractory Duke Hunold of Aquitaine.
Provence: Charles Martel continues his campaign in 
Provence. He takes Arles, Avignon and Marseille from the 
Moors, while the Burgundians try to negotiate peace with Emir 
Abdul Melek, the successor of Abdul Rahman.
Phase –1: Charles Martel


--- PDF PAGE 53 (Rulebook Page 53) ---
Chapter Two: The Past
52
Grandfather Events Table (736)
1d20 Result
Event
1
He died of a random cause.
2–5
He served garrison duty.
6–10
He fought a victorious battle against Gerard of 
Roussillon. Roll at –1 on Table 2–2: Combat Survival.
11–20
With Charles Martel, he liberates Arles from the 
Moors after a long siege. Roll on Table 2–2: Combat 
Survival. If he survived, he gains 1d3 Hate [Moors].
Anno 737
Girart de Roussillon: [←736] Gerard and Bertha final­
ly return to Charles Martel’s court, where they are recognized 
by Elissent’s ring, and they make honorable amends. But when 
Gerard’s only son is killed, the feud starts again and this time 
Gerard defeats Charles Martel in battle.
The Pope intervenes and Gerard humbly agrees to make 
peace again. The duke leaves his lands to his nephew Fulco of 
Morillon, founds many monasteries and retires as a monk.n
Lion de Bourges: [←736] Herpin of Bourges and his wife 
go to Lombardy, where Alice gives birth to a son. In Herpin’s 
absence, brigands abduct Alice and leave the baby, who is blessed 
by faeries and nurtured by a lioness. He is later found by Baldwin 
of Monclin, who baptizes the boy “Lion.” [→738] 
Les Lorrains: Hervis of Lorraine has distinguished himself 
at the side of Charles Martel in the battles with the Saracens. His 
two sons, Garin and Bego, are raised at court, together with their 
companions from Bordeaux: Fromont of Lens and William of 
Monclin (Baldwin’s nephew). As Bego is made Duke of Gascony, 
Fromont is promised the next great fief. [→738] 
Septimania, Provence: The Visigoths make an alliance 
with the Moors against Charles Martel. Still, with a little help 
from his Lombard allies led by King Liutprand, the Frankish 
Mayor of the Palace defeats the Moors and captures the rebel­
lious towns of Avignon, Beziers and Nîmes. He has the towns 
burned and their hostile populations put to the sword. Duke 
Mauronte of Septimania is hung.
Grandfather Events Table (737)
1d20 Result
Event
1
He died of a random cause.
2–5
He served garrison duty.
6–10
He fought in the battle against Gerard of Roussillon. 
Roll at –1 on Table 2–2: Combat Survival.
11–20
He took part at the successful siege of Avignon and took 
part in the subsequent massacre of the population. Roll 
on Table 2–2: Combat Survival. If grandfather sur­
vived, he gained a 1d6 directed trait of Cruel [traitors].
Anno 738
Huon d’Auvergne: [←735] On his way to Hell, Huon cross­
es the lands of the Avars. From there he reaches Jerusalem and 
the legendary land of Prester John. Huon does, eventually, brief­
ly visit Hell. [→742] 
Les Lorrains: [←737] The Moors invade Burgundy and 
King Thierry IV demands assistance. The Bordelais refuse, 
but the Lorrains engage in battle and crush their enemy. As a 
reward, the dying king offers his land and his young daughter 
Blanchefleur’s hand to the valorous Garin. Charles Martel’s ap­
proval angers the jealous Fromont, who reminds Charles Martel 
of his promise and claims Burgundy as his own. The two rival 
clans (the Lorrainers and the Bordelais) start a bloody fight 
at court, in which Fromont’s brother, Hardrad, is killed. A 
long-lasting feud is born.
Fromont marries Helissent of Ponthieu, the sister of Count 
Baldwin of Flanders. Fromont and Baldwin then attack Huon 
of Cambrai, a Lorrainer, which rekindles the feud. A few bat­
tles take place in which Fromont’s brothers are killed, so the 
Bordelais finally capitulate. A fragile peace is concluded. [→739] 
Orson de Beauvais: Counts Orson and Hugo are made 
companions to seal the peace in Burgundy. Orson marries 
Aceline, the daughter of the exiled Duke Huon of Auvergne, 
who gives him a son, Milo. Hugo is Milo’s godfather.
The problem is that Hugo is also in love with Aceline. 
Therefore, he stages an angelic vision in which he tells Orson 
to leave on a pilgrimage with his companion. Before they go, 
Aceline gives her husband a golden ring. On the road, Hugo 
steals the ring and sells his companion as a slave. [→740] 
Lion de Bourges: [←737] Herpin retires as a monk near 
Rome, while Alice escapes from captivity disguised as a man and 
settles in Toledo as “Sir Ballian of Argonne.” She kills a giant to 
save her lord, who then wishes to marry “him” to his daughter 
Floirie. When she reveals her true identity to avoid marriage, the 
wali himself desires her hand, so she flees into the city disguised 
as a beggar. [→754] 
Frankland: At Thierry IV’s death, the Frankish throne is 
left vacant.
Rome: St. Boniface visits Rome, where he receives a papal 
mission to convert the Saxons.
Grandfather Events Table (738)
1d20 Result
Event
1
He died of a random cause.
2–10
He served garrison duty.
11–15
He fought with the Lorrainers in the battle of 
Burgundy against the Moors. Roll at –1 on Table 
2–2: Combat Survival. If grandfather survived, he 
gains 1d3 Hate [Moors].
16–20
He participated in the raids of the Lorrainers against 
the lands of the Bordelais. Roll on Table 2–2: Combat 
Survival.
Anno 739
Les Lorrains: [←738] When Blanchefleur comes of age, 
Charles Martel forces some monks to declare that Garin and 
Blanchefleur are related, and marries her himself, instead. The 
Lorrainers are furious and a fight breaks out during the wed­
ding. Charles Martel orders a judicial combat, in which Bego of 


--- PDF PAGE 54 (Rulebook Page 54) ---
53
Lorraine kills Isoré the Grey. The Lorrainers now join Charles 
Martel’s clan, thanks to the double marriage of the widowed 
Aelis of Cologne with Garin, and of his brother Bego with an­
other of Charles’ nieces. The Bordelais, however, ambush Bego 
and almost kill him. The Lorrainers lay siege to Bordeaux, forc­
ing the Bordelais once more to surrender. [→759] 
Rome: King Liutprand takes several papal towns. The 
Pope calls on Charles Martel for aid, in vain.
Septimania: Pepin the Short and King Liutprand of the 
Lombards drive the Moors out of several Septimanian towns. 
All possessions of those who collaborated with the Moors are 
confiscated and distributed among loyal Frankish warriors.
Grandfather Events Table (739)
1d20 Result
Event
1
He died of a random cause.
2–5
He served garrison duty.
6–10
He fought in an unsuccessful siege against the Moors 
in Provence.
11–20
He fought in a successful siege against the Moors in 
Septimania and was richly rewarded with spoils. Roll 
on Table 2–2: Combat Survival. If he survived, you 
gain an extra roll on Table 1–15: Frankish Birth Gifts.
Anno 740
Gaufrey: [←730] Godfrid arrives at Rochebrune Castle, 
where Duke Naymo’s cousin, Passerose, is besieged by the 
Danish king, who wants to marry her. The Danes are routed. 
Passerose marries Godfrid and conceives Ogier.
Godfrid pushes into Denmark and kills the king in battle, 
seizing the Danish throne for himself.
On the way back home, the Franks pass through Gloriant’s 
territory and lay siege to the Giant’s Tower, held by Lord 
Morhier. One night, the Saxons attack the Frankish tents and 
slaughter many knights. The tide turns when Robastre decapi­
tates Morhier. [→752] 
Orson de Beauvais: [←738] When Hugo returns home, he 
tells everybody how Sir Orson died in Jerusalem, and that be­
fore dying he asked his companion to marry his wife and take 
care of his lands. He gives Charles Martel rich presents and ob­
tains permission to wed the “widowed” Aceline against her will. 
However, Aceline uses herbs to prevent Hugo from sleeping 
with her. [→749] 
Grandfather Events Table (740)
1d20 Result
Event
1
He died of a random cause.
2–10
He served garrison duty.
11–20
He participated at the successful siege of Rochebrune 
Castle against the Danes. Roll on Table 2–2: Combat 
Survival. If he survived, he gains 1d6 Hate [Danes].
Anno 741
Frankland: Charles Martel dies. He is buried at the chapel 
of Andenne in the Ardennes. The kingdom is split between his 
sons Carloman (Austrasia and Thuringia) and Pepin (Neustria 
and Burgundy). Their half-brother Grifo and several barons reb­
el. Grifo is captured and imprisoned in a monastery.
Grandfather Events Table (741)
1d20 Result
Event
1
He died of a random cause.
2–5
He served garrison duty.
6–10
He took part in the skirmish during which Prince 
Grifo was captured. (50 Glory)
11–20
He participated in Charles Martel’s burial. (50 Glory)
Phase 0: King Pepin (742–767)
Customs
F
eudalism: During King Pepin’s phase it functions only 
on a lower level. The king represents a formal central au­
thority. Locally, the great magnates still rule by “Might 
Makes Right.”
Truce of God: This set of rules, created by the Church to 
limit the violence against the innocent and weak, is ignored by 
most nobles. In theory there should be no acts of war during holy 
days and Sundays, and church property should be protected.
Knighthood: As an extension of early feudalism, Pepin cre­
ates a separate caste of noble fighters. These knights follow the 
Code of Honor: unswerving loyalty to one’s lord, the willingness 
to face one’s enemies and deal out death on command.
Heraldry: Counts have an individual coat of arms and have 
their own battle standard with symbolic insignias. The knights 
in their retinues wear their colors, but they do not have an indi­
vidual coat of arms unless they belong to a very powerful family.
Tournaments: Tournaments are purely informal challenges 
or training contests, occasionally organized at a lord’s court.
Women: They are the property of the family patriarchs, 
who marry them at will to advance the interests of their House.
Chivalry: Despite King Pepin’s best efforts to civilize his 
knights, the chivalric ideals are known in theory but remain 
largely unapplied in practice. Minstrels and troubadours may 
refer to chivalry in song, and knights treat their fellows-at-arms 
with the respect due to a nobleman, but almost everybody agrees 
it would be exaggerated to extend similar courtesy to the Saxons 
or Moors or, for that matter, even to a Frankish enemy.
Romance: This novel set of ideas has slowly evolved 
from the Asturian literature about King Floris and Queen 
Blancheflour. For the moment it remains confined to the realm 
of poetry.
Phase 0: King Pepin


--- PDF PAGE 55 (Rulebook Page 55) ---
Chapter Two: The Past
54
Fashion: Nobles wear the traditional Frankish linen shirt, 
a knotted or pinned cloak, trousers, thick stockings and san­
dals. Elegance is expressed by superficial Roman influences like 
brooches and sashes. Men have long hair, but shave and have nei­
ther mustache nor beard.
Warfare
Armor: Ring mail body armor and an open conical helmet 
with a nasal protection (8 points) is the standard for knights. 
Round shields (6 points) are made of leather-covered wood with 
an iron boss in the center.
Weapons: Knights wield a spear and an iron sword, with an 
axe, mace, or a hammer.
Horses: Chargers are rare and expensive. Poor knights 
fight on rouncies, or sometimes coursers.
Horse armor is limited to simple trappers (4 points).
Castles: Motte-and-bailey castles are prevalent. A few cities 
have preserved their Roman walls, but stone castles are almost 
unknown. The most frequent defensive works are wooden for­
tresses and single stone towers.
Levy Troops: Free men present themselves at their lord’s 
army mostly as lightly armored cavalry, spearmen, or unarmored 
archers.
Anno 742
Doon de La Roche: Pepin the Short offers the hand of his 
sister, Olive, to the loyal Doon of La Roche. Doon becomes 
Count of Cologne. Olive gives birth to a son, Landri. The cou­
ple settles in their new castle at the city of Cologne. [→744] 
Huon d’Auvergne: [←738] Duke Huon of Auvergne re­
turns to Frankland, but his crime remains unforgiven, as Charles 
Martel has died.n
Rome: The Lombards and the Pope make peace.
Grandfather Events Table (742)
1d20 Result
Event
1
He died of a random cause.
2–10
He served garrison duty.
11–20
He attended Doon of La Roche’s wedding with 
Princess Olive. (25 Glory)
Anno 743
Frankland: Carloman and Pepin have Childeric III 
crowned as the new King of the Franks.
Bavaria: The Frankish Mayors campaign in Bavaria, where 
they defeat Duke Odilo at Regensburg. Bavaria is officially an­
nexed to the Frankish crown.
Saxony, Aquitaine: Pepin then marches against the 
Saxons, while Carloman fights the rebellious Duke Hunold in 
Aquitaine.
Grandfather Events Table (743)
1d20 Result
Event
1
He died of a random cause.
2–5
He served garrison duty.
6–10
He participated in the victorious battle of Regensburg. 
Roll at –1 on Table 2–2: Combat Survival.
11–15
He fought in the raids against the Saxons. Roll on 
Table 2–2: Combat Survival. If he survived, he gains 
1d3 Hate [Saxons].
16–20
He fought in the raids against the Aquitainians. Roll 
on Table 2–2: Combat Survival.
Anno 744
Doon de la Roche: [←742] The jealous Sir Tomile puts 
a young man in the countess’ bed while her husband is away. 
When Doon comes back and discovers the scene, he kills the 
naked knave and accuses his wife of adultery. Pepin the Short 
comes to Cologne to judge his sister’s case himself. With Pepin’s 
consent Doon repudiates Olive, who is sent to an isolated manor 
with her son Landri. [→745] 
Berthe aux grands pieds: [←736] Queen Blancheflour of 
Asturias is worried about her daughter’s bad reputation, so she 
decides to pay her daughter a visit. She travels to Paris and dis­
covers the heinous imposture! Margiste and her accomplice, 
Tibert the huntsman, are forced to confess and are put to death. 
The false queen, Aliste, retires to a convent, but the two princely 


--- PDF PAGE 56 (Rulebook Page 56) ---
55
bastards are allowed to stay at court. The real Bertrada, whom 
Blancheflour identifies by her large feet (hence the queen’s nick­
name “Broadfoot”), is restored as Pepin’s lawful wife. 
However, like many other noblemen, Pepin seems to doubt 
Bertrada’s story and regrets the absence of proof concerning 
Charlemagne’s noble birth. The Pope convinces Pepin and 
comes to St. Denis to celebrate his marriage with Bertrada.n
Saxony, Aquitaine: Pepin and Carloman march into 
Saxony and kill many pagan warriors. Duke Hunold of Aquitaine 
revolts while Pepin and Carloman are away.
Grandfather Events Table (744)
1d20 Result
Event
1–10
He served garrison duty.
11–14
He participated in a raid against the Saxons. Roll on 
Table 2–2: Combat Survival. If he survived, he gained 
1d3 Hate [Saxons].
15–18
He assisted at Bertrada’s return and Margiste’s execu­
tion. (25 Glory)
19–20
He personally captured one of Duke Hunold’s spies 
at Pepin’s court. (100 Glory)
Your father is knighted and takes over the narrative. 
If your grandfather is still alive after 744, he dies 1d20 years 
later. Roll on Table 2–3: Miscellaneous Death Causes.
If your grandfather has any Hate passions over 10, he passes 
them on to your father. 
Your father’s starting Glory is 2,500 plus 1/10th of your 
grandfather’s total Glory.
Anno 745
Doon de la Roche: [←744] Doon marries Tomile’s daugh­
ter, Audegour. Together they have a son, Malingre. Whenever 
Landri comes to visit his father, he is ill-treated by Tomile’s rel­
atives. [→760] 
Aquitaine: Duke Hunold is captured in battle and sent to a 
monastery. His son Waifer becomes the new Duke of Aquitaine.
Father Events Table (745)
1d20 Result
Event
1–5
He married his concubine, your mother, after she told 
him she was pregnant. (100 Glory)
6–10
He was given the hand of your mother as a reward for 
his loyal service. (200 Glory)
11–20
He abducted your mother, the daughter of a rival lord, 
and married her. (400 Glory)
Anno 746
Maugis, Vivien de Montbranc: In her husband’s ab­
sence during a Saracen raid in Septimania, Lady Druwane of 
Aigremont gives birth to Maugis and his twin brother, Vivien. 
The two babies become separated: Maugis is found by Oriande, 
a faerie who has him baptized and raises him at her court at 
Castle Rocheflor, while Vivien is captured and taken away to 
Montbranc in Moorish Spain, together with his aunt Ysane. 
Ysane is married to the Moorish Prince Aquilant of Majorca, to 
whom she bears a son, Brendan. Vivien is raised by Esclarmonde, 
the wife of Wali Sorgalant of Monbranc. [→753] 
Ami and Amile: Two boys are born on the same day but in 
different places: Ami is the son of the Count of Clermont, Amile is 
the son of the Count of Bourges. When an angel tells their parents 
how they will be united in an extraordinary friendship, they trav­
el to Rome where the Pope baptizes the two blessed children. As 
birth-gifts they receive two identical goblets. The children grow up 
separately, but come to resemble each other in every detail. [→761] 
Raoul de Cambrai: At the death of Taillefer of Cambrai, 
his wife and fief are given to Gibouin of Le Mans. When he is 
knighted, Taillefer’s son, Raoul, claims the fief. The king refus­
es but promises to endow Raoul with the next vacant domain. 
When Herbert of Vermandois dies, Raoul becomes the new count 
of Vermandois, though his mother asked him to forfeit this fief. 
Herbert had four young sons, who now declare war on Raoul.
When Raoul burns down the monastery of Origny in re­
taliation, all the nuns there die. Among them the mother of his 
most loyal vassal, Bernier (Herbert of Vermandois’ grandson), 
who demands a reparation from his lord. Raoul refuses and even 
insults his vassal, so Bernier leaves court and joins his family, led 
by Herbert’s son, Ybert of Ribemont. In the next battle, Bernier 
kills Raoul. [→747] 
Frankland: Boniface is appointed Archbishop of Mayence. 
Carloman orders the execution of many rebellious Alemannian 
noblemen.
You are born!
Father Events Table (746)
1d20 Result
Event
1
He died of a random cause.
2–10
He served garrison duty.
11–15
He suffered during the Moorish raid in Septimania. 
Roll at –1 on Table 2–2: Combat Survival. If he sur­
vives, he gains 1d3 Hate [Moors].
16–18
He participated in the execution of rebellious 
Alemannian nobles. You gain a 1d6 directed trait of 
Cruel [traitors].
19–20
He attended your birth at home and undertook a pil­
grimage to the grave of a local saint. You gain 1 point 
of Love [God].
Anno 747
Girart de Vienne: His endless wars with Synagon of 
Alexandria have impoverished Lord Garin of Monglane. To help 
their father, his four sons capture a Saracen convoy and take a rich 
booty. They give everything to their poor father and decide to 
leave home in order to conquer lands and glory elsewhere. [→750] 
Raoul de Cambrai: [←746] Guerri of Arras encourages 
Raoul’s mother to avenge her son’s death and to continue the 
feud against the Vermandois. After the sack of Paris (where 
Gibuoin dies), King Pepin intervenes and peace is concluded. 
To reconcile the two families Bernier marries Guerri’s daughter, 
Phase 0: King Pepin


--- PDF PAGE 57 (Rulebook Page 57) ---
Chapter Two: The Past
56
Beatrix, even though Pepin wanted to give her to another vassal, 
Archibald of Ponthieu (Pinabel’s grandfather). [→748] 
Rome: Carloman makes a pilgrimage to Rome, before 
retiring to the monastery of Monte Cassino. He orders his 
half-brother Grifo to be released from prison.
Father Events Table (747)
1d20 Result
Event
1
He died of a random cause.
2–10
He served garrison duty.
11–18
After having accompanied Carloman on his way to 
Lombardy, he visited Rome. (25 Glory)
19–20
He met Boniface, the newly appointed Bishop of 
Mayence, and was visited by an angel who told him to 
do penance for his sins: he retired as a hermit into the 
Ardennes Forest. Roll 1d20 for the number of years 
he spent as a hermit before he finally died. You gain 1 
point in Love [God].
Anno 748
Raoul de Cambrai: [←747] To atone for their family’s 
sins, Bernier and Beatrix leave on a pilgrimage. On their way, 
their son Julien is born. During a Moorish raid, Bernier and 
his son are captured and taken to Spain. Beatrix returns home 
and, in Bernier’s absence, she is finally given to Sir Archibald of 
Ponthieu. Bernier and his son escape their Moorish prison and 
return to Frankland. [→749] 
Frankland: Grifo flees to Bavaria. Duke Odilo is slain in 
battle and Grifo is captured by King Pepin, who reinstates him 
as Duke of the Breton March.
Bavaria: The child Tassilo III becomes Duke of Bavaria, 
under the regency of Pepin’s sister Chiltrude.
Anno 749
Enfances Roland: Prince Charlemagne commits incest 
with his cousin Bertha. She then falls in love with Milo, the roy-
al seneschal. When Princess Bertha finds out she is pregnant, she 
and Sir Milo leave court. They wander around the country and 
live as poor folk in the forest. [→750] 
Raoul de Cambrai: [←748] Bernier takes back his wife, 
with whom he has a second son, Henry. [→750] 
Orson de Beauvais: [←740] When he learns about Hugo’s 
plan to get rid of him, young Milo leaves home during the night 
with his mentor Guynemant. Hugo pursues and attacks his step-
son, who wounds the count and flees. Back home, the furious 
Hugo accuses his wife of treason and locks her up in a tower. 
Milo and Guynemant arrive in Berri, where they are wel-
comed by Sir Baldric, who turns out to be Hugo’s relative. The 
honorless Baldric imprisons his guests, but his gentle daugh-
ter sets them free and cuts the bell cord so that her father can-
not raise the alarm. Baldric goes after them and is killed by 
Guynemant. [→755] 
Lombardy: Aistulf is crowned as King of the Lombards.
Frankland, Bavaria, Lombardy: Grifo escapes from his 
prison and flees to Saxony, from where he invades Bavaria. Pepin 
marches to Bavaria, defeats his half-brother and restores Duke 
Tassilo to power. Grifo escapes again and flees to Duke Waifer of 
Aquitaine, and later to King Aistulf of Lombardy.
Father Events Table (749)
1d20 Result
Event
1
He died of a random cause.
2–10
He served garrison duty.
11–18
He participated in a battle in Bavaria. Roll at –1 on 
Table 2–2: Combat Survival.
19–20
He was in charge of Grifo, prisoner of Pepin the 
Short, when he escaped. You lose 1 point of Honor.
Anno 750
Raoul de Cambrai: [←749] Bernier wishes to complete 
his pilgrimage, and this time he is accompanied by his father-
in-law, Guerri the Red. When they pass the burnt monastery of 
Origny, Guerri slays Bernier in cold blood. The feud is revived 
and Bernier’s sons lay siege to Arras. Guerri flees and is never 
heard of again. [→766] 
Enfances Roland: [←749] In exile, Princess Bertha gives 
birth to a healthy son, who is baptized Roland by a holy hermit. 
[→762] 
Girart de Vienne: [←747] Oliver and Aude are born. [→769] 
Chanson des Saisnes: A long time ago, Heloise, daughter of 
Floovent and grand-daughter of Clovis, was married to the Saxon 
chief, Brunamont. The Saxons use this union as a pretext to lay 
claims on the Frankish throne. They declare war on the Franks, 
but Pepin the Mayor kills the Saxon warchief, Justamont, in bat-
tle. This sets off a long-lasting feud between the Saxons and the 
Franks (in Charlemagne’s time the Saxon leader is Justamont’s 
son, Widukind). [→781] 
Septimania, Provence: The Saracens leave all but some cit-
ies in Septimania, but remain the overlords of Provence.
Rome: Pepin sends Burchard, the Bishop of Würzburg, and 
Fulrad, his chaplain, on a mission to the Pope in Rome.
Father Events Table (750)
1d20 Result
Event
1
He died of a random cause.
2–10
He served garrison duty.
11–20
He participated in a battle against the Saxons. Roll 
on Table 2–2: Combat Survival. If father survives, he 
gains 1d6 Hate [Saxons].
Anno 751
Frankland: Childeric III, the last Merovingian king, is de-
posed and sent to a monastery. Pepin and his wife Bertrada are 
anointed king and queen by Archbishop Boniface of Metz, indi-
cating that the future kings of the Franks must be chosen from 
their descendants. The sons of their union automatically become 


--- PDF PAGE 58 (Rulebook Page 58) ---
57
the sacred kings of the Franks, but whether this includes Prince 
Charlemagne is a matter of debate, since Pepin and Bertrada 
were not officially married when the boy was born. Some nobles 
are skeptical about Charlemagne’s royal birth, doubting if Pepin 
is indeed his father.
Mainet: To usurp the throne and to avenge their mother 
Aliste, the bastard princes Heudri and Rainfroi (with the help 
of some discontent nobles) plan to poison their half-brother, 
Charlemagne. Luckily, Charlemagne’s friend, David, discov­
ers the wicked plot. Charlemagne and David decide to leave 
Frankland, where they are no longer safe. Before leaving, David 
takes the sword Joyeuse from the royal treasury and hands it 
to Charlemagne. The next day, the two evil princes imprison 
Milo of Aiglent (Aliste’s eldest son, their and Charlemagne’s 
half-brother), who aided Charlemagne to escape.
Charlemagne and his friends meet an Asturian guide 
named Macabrin who leads them to Toledo, where they are en­
gaged as mercenaries by Emir Galafre. To avoid being recognized 
as Pepin’s son, Charlemagne takes on the name of Mainet, for 
he remembers how his father recently killed Galafre’s relative, 
Justamont. David calls himself Esmeray. [→752] 
Frankland, Aquitaine: Grifo rebels and, after a few skir­
mishes, flees to the court of Duke Waifer of Aquitaine.
Lombardy: The Lombards take the city of Ravenna from 
the Byzantines.
Father Events Table (751)
1d20 Result
Event
1
He died of a random cause.
2–10
He served garrison duty.
11–15
He fought in a skirmish against the rebellious Prince 
Grifo. Roll on Table 2–2: Combat Survival.
16–20
As a palace guard, he personally assisted at Pepin and 
Bertrada’s anointment. (50 Glory)
Anno 752
Gaufrey: [←740] Queen Passerose dies and King Godfrid 
of Denmark marries a haughty Danish princess. [→757] 
Daurel and Beton: [←736] Beton has turned into the fin­
est of knights. The Sultan suspects him not to be Daurel’s child. 
Daurel finally confesses Beton’s true lineage.
One day the Sultan is challenged by a rival Saracen. Beton 
acts as his champion and defeats a giant, thereby gaining the 
hand of Princess Erimene. [→753] 
Mainet: [←751] The emir of Cordoba is at war with the 
rebellious wali of Pamplona, Caimant. Morant of Turfier 
leads Emir Galafre’s Syrian and Frankish mercenary troops. 
Despite his inferior equipment, squire Mainet distinguish­
es himself and kills Caimant in battle. Back in Toledo, he 
is praised by all for his valor. Galafre’s daughter, princess 
Galienna, falls in love with Mainet, but he politely refuses 
her advances. The emir knights Mainet and equips him, but 
the Frank refuses the sword he’s given, because he already has 
a better one (Joyeuse).
Galienna refuses to marry Prince Braimant, to whom her 
father had promised her. When Galafre breaks the engagement 
in favor of Mainet, Braimant is furious and declares war on the 
emir. Another battle is fought. Again Mainet kills Galafre’s ene­
my and takes an enormous booty. The Syrian mercenaries are so 
impressed with Mainet’s valor and skill, that they demand to be 
baptized by chaplain Solin. These new converts all join Mainet’s 
mercenary company.
Galafre’s son, Marsile, is jealous and fears that Mainet will 
take his place as the future emir of Spain. He plans to ambush 
the Frank on his way back to Galafre’s court. Meanwhile, in the 
marvelous tent looted from Braimant, Galienna finds a magic 
mirror in which she sees Mainet’s life: how he was born in the 
forest as Charlemagne, and how his half-brothers tried to poison 
him. She also sees the ambush her jealous brother Marsile is pre­
paring. She warns the Franks, who ride out to help Mainet. They 
arrive just in time to defeat Marsile. Since it has now become 
impossible for them to return to Toledo, they decide to go back 
home. [→753] 
Septimania: The Saracens raid Septimania.
Frankland: Birth of Carloman II, brother of Charlemagne.
Anno 753
Mainet: [←752] On their way back to Frankland, 
Charlemagne and his companions hear that the Babylonian 
Emir, Corsuble, who invaded Italy, now lays siege to the Pope in 
Rome. The Frankish war-band successfully attacks the besieging 
force, frees Rome and all Christian prisoners. Covered in glory, 
Charlemagne returns to his father’s court, where he reveals the 
plot of his evil half-brothers who forced him into exile. Heudri 
and Rainfroi are hanged.n
Daurel and Beton: [←752] Daurel and Beton leave for 
Frankland and enter Guy’s castle disguised as minstrels. Beton 
sings the song of his own life, and when Guy realizes who is sing­
ing in front of him, they fight and Beton cuts off Guy’s right 
arm. The fisherman who betrayed Beton as a baby is skinned 
alive. Guy is executed. Erimene comes to Hantone, where she 
is baptized and married to Beton. The loyal Daurel receives a 
great fief.n
Maugis: [←746] At the faerie court of his sister Oriande, 
Baldric teaches young Maugis the arts of magic (astrology, herb­
alism, and necromancy), and after a few years he even surpasses 
his master. [→765, Quatre fils Aymon] 
Saxony: King Pepin makes war on the Saxons. Archbishop 
Hildegaire is killed at the battle of Mount Viburg.
Lombardy: Pepin’s men capture Prince Grifo in Lombardy 
while fleeing to Byzantium. He later dies in prison.
Frankland: Prince Charlemagne becomes the Duke of the 
Breton March.
Phase 0: King Pepin


--- PDF PAGE 59 (Rulebook Page 59) ---
Chapter Two: The Past
58
Father Events Table (753)
1d20 Result
Event
1
He died of a random cause.
2–10
He served garrison duty.
11–15
He fought at the battle of Mount Viburg. Roll at –1 
on Table 2–2: Combat Survival. If he survives, he 
gains 1d6 Hate [Saxons].
16–20
He was part of the expedition that captured Grifo. 
(50 Glory)
Anno 754
Frankland, Lombardy: With the help of King Aistulf of 
the Lombards, Carloman of Burgundy rebels against his broth­
er, Pepin, but is captured and imprisoned in the monastery of 
Vienne. While raiding in Lombardy, King Pepin receives an ur­
gent demand for aid from the Pope.
Aymeri de Narbonne: [←709, Enfances Garin de Monglane] 
After a long and bloody siege, Count Aymeri liberates the city of 
Narbonne from Saracen oppression.
Aymeri sends a marriage proposal to princess Ermengard of 
Pavia. His envoys intimidate her father with their excessive gen­
erosity. When Aymeri himself travels to Lombardy, the Saracens 
take advantage of his absence to lay siege to Narbonne again, but 
with Gerard of Roussillon’s help, Aymeri returns and once more 
defeats the Saracens, and then marries Ermengard. [→775, Les 
Narbonnais] 
Lion de Bourges: [←738] Rome is besieged by Saracens, 
who kill the abbot of Herpin’s monastery. Herpin takes up arms 
and defeats the invaders. He is betrayed, however, by the jealous 
Count Gaudiffer of Rome, who sells him to Moorish slave trad­
ers from Toledo.
Meanwhile, Baldwin generously raises Lion as a knight and 
allows him to participate in a tournament at Monlusant in Sicily. 
When Lion hears Baldwin is not his real father, he sets out to 
find his real parents. Shortly after, he is ambushed by brigands 
who kill a traveling companion. Lion gives the dead knight a 
proper Christian burial.
On the road, Lion meets Ganor, his father’s former squire, 
and decides to go to the Sicilian tournament. He teams up with 
Raymond of Vauvenice and wins the hand of Princess Florentine, 
thanks to the assistance of a powerful and mysterious White 
Knight (who is in fact the ghost of the dead knight he recently 
buried). [→755] 
Frankland: The Pope, grateful for King Pepin’s support, 
travels to Paris where he once more anoints Pepin, this time 
along with his two reconciled sons, Charlemagne and Carloman. 
The Pope gives King Pepin the sacred standard Oriflamme and 
declares the royal Frank, “Vir nobilis, filius regnatoris, patricius 
Romanorum” (Noble Man, Son of kings, Patrician of Rome).
Frisia: Saint Boniface is slaughtered while trying to convert 
the Frisians.
Father Events Table (754)
1d20 Result
Event
1
He died of a random cause. 
2–8
He served garrison duty.
9–14
He fought against the allied forces of Carloman and 
King Aistulf. Roll at –1 on Table 2–2: Combat Survival. 
15–18
He participated in the raids in Lombardy.
19–20
He fought at the victorious siege of Narbonne. Roll 
on Table 2–2: Combat Survival. If he survives, he 
gains 1d3 Hate [Moors].
Anno 755
Lion de Bourges: [←754] Florentine is abducted by Duke 
Garnier of Calabria. Lion, Raymond of Vauvenisse and Duke 
Henry of Sicily pursue the evil duke and lay siege to his castle 
of Monterose. When Lion learns that Florentine is held captive 
in the city of Reggio, he goes in disguise to the duke’s palace. 
He is recognized by the jealous lady Clarissa, who seduces him. 
Later she gives birth to a bastard son Gerard (756) and marries 
a knight named Walter of Monrochier. Florentine escapes her 
prison without Lion’s help and arrives at a nunnery. [→757] 
Orson de Beauvais: [←749] Guynemant and Milo travel to 
Compostela and the city of Bile, where they are accepted at the 
court of the wali, Basile. Milo kills Basile’s Saracen rival, Isoré 
the Black, in battle. Basile’s daughter, Oriente, falls in love with 
the young knight. Milo agrees to marry her, but first he wants 
to avenge his father. To his surprise, he finds his father in Isoré’s 
prison. To thank God, they go to Jerusalem together.
Meanwhile, in Frankland, Sir Hugo condemns his wife 
to the stake, but a few loyal vassals, led by Count Doon of 
Clermont, liberate Aceline.
Hugo appeals to Guy of Vermandois who agrees to help 
him, but Guy is captured and taken into the city of Clermont, 
besieged by Hugo and King Pepin. His ransom paid, Guy re­
turns to the besiegers and expresses his doubts about Hugo’s 
story. [→759] 
Anno 756
Aquilon de Bavière: To thwart a prophecy that his son, 
Aquilon, will harm Christianity, Duke Naymo sends the six-
year-old boy to be raised at the court of the King of Jerusalem. 
A storm diverts the ship, and the Emir of Cordoba finds the boy 
and raises him under the name of Anibal. [→771] 
Lombardy: The treacherous King Aistulf of the Lombards 
makes war on the Pope again, and lays siege to Rome. Pepin launch­
es a second campaign against the Lombards, whom he defeats at the 
siege of Pavia. King Aistulf dies after falling from his horse.
King Pepin presents the lands he won to the Pope (the 
“Donation of Pepin”), these lands become the Papal States. 
Emperor Constantine V of Byzantium sends rich gifts to en­
dorse the Byzantine claim to these Papal States, which King 
Pepin refuses.


--- PDF PAGE 60 (Rulebook Page 60) ---
59
Father Events Table (756)
1d20 Result
Event
1
He died of a random cause. 
2–10
He served garrison duty.
11–15
He fought at the siege of Pavia. Roll at –1 on Table 
2–2: Combat Survival.
16–20
He served garrison duty in Rome. (25 Glory)
Anno 757
Gaufrey, Enfances Ogier: [←752] King Pepin wages a glo­
rious war on the Danes. King Godfrid is obliged to hand over 
his son, Ogier, as a hostage to the Franks. When Pepin the Short 
demands Godfrid do homage for Denmark and claims a trib­
ute, the Danish queen convinces her husband to refuse. The 
Frankish knights who acted as royal messengers are tonsured and 
sent back to the Frankish court.
Prince Ogier is imprisoned in a castle of Count Huon of St. 
Omer, where he is treated well. He even marries the castle war­
den’s daughter, Bellisinda, who gives him twins named Baldwin 
and Dudo. [→767] 
Lion de Bourges: [←755] At the siege of Monterose, Duke 
Henry of Sicily is taken prisoner. Sir Lion launches an attack 
and, with the help of the White Knight, liberates the Sicilian 
king and kills the brother of the evil Duke Garnier. He finds 
Florentine at the nunnery and takes her to Sicily, where Henry 
allows their marriage. [→759] 
Bavaria: Tasillo III, the Duke of Bavaria, pays homage to 
King Pepin.
Lombardy: Duke Desiderius of Tuscany becomes King of 
the Lombards.
Frankland: Tithes to the Church become obligatory.
Father Events Table (757)
1d20 Result
Event
1
He died of a random cause. 
2–10
He served garrison duty.
11–18
He fought in the victorious battle against the Danes. 
Roll on Table 2–2: Combat Survival. If he survives, he 
gains 1d3 Hate [Danes].
19–20
He was one of the tonsured messengers. He gained 
1d6 Hate [Danes]. You lose 1 point of Honor.
Anno 758
Saxony: Pepin launches a retaliatory raid into Saxony. The 
Saxons suffer a severe defeat, and they agree to pay the Franks a 
yearly tribute of 300 horses. The defeated population is either 
slaughtered or baptized.
Father Events Table (758)
1d20 Result
Event
1
He died of a random cause. 
2–10
He served garrison duty.
11–16
He participated in a raid into Saxony. Roll on Table 
2–2: Combat Survival. If he survives, he gains 1d3 
Hate [Saxons].
17–20
He fought a victorious battle in Saxony and put many 
renegade Saxons to the sword. Roll at –1 on Table 
2–2: Combat Survival. If he survives, he gains 1d6 
Hate [Saxons].
Anno 759
Septimania: King Pepin chases the last Saracens from 
Septimania with the help of the local Visigothic nobles and 
Duke Tassilo of Bavaria.
Orson de Beauvais: [←755] Orson and Milo return from 
the Holy Land and present themselves at King Pepin’s court as 
pilgrims. Hugo, who doesn’t recognize them, offers them silver 
if they tell King Pepin the story of Orson’s death. Then Orson 
reveals his identity and tells his king the truth. Hugo has to fight 
Milo in a judicial duel.
On the morning of the duel, Hugo is unable to kiss the 
church relics. He orders his knights to prepare an ambush in case 
the trial should turn out to his disadvantage. Guynemant sus­
pects treason and prepares his own men for battle.
In the duel, Hugo feigns surrender, but then tries to stab his 
opponent. In the end, Milo knocks his opponent down. Hugo 
confesses his crimes and is hanged. King Pepin offers one of his 
nieces to Milo, who refuses. Instead, he returns to the city of 
Bile, where he marries the converted Oriente.n
Lion de Bourges: [←757] Florentine bears Lion twins 
named Herpin and William. [→761] 
Les Lorrains: [←739] Old Count Bego is hunting a for­
midable boar. He follows the animal into a forest belonging 
to Fromont of Lens and is killed by huntsmen. The feud is re­
newed. The Lorrainers kill Fromont’s last brother, William of 
Blancafort. King Pepin intervenes and imposes a peace treaty.
Garin is sent on a pilgrimage, but on his way he is ambushed 
and killed in a chapel. Garin’s son, Gerbert, and Bego’s son, 
Ernold, retaliate by killing Bishop Lancelin, one of their father’s 
murderers. Supported by the king, the Lorrainers kill many 
Bordelais, including old Fromont. Gerbert even has a drinking 
cup made out of the dead count’s skull. [→760] 
Anno 760
Doon de la Roche: [←745] When Landri is knighted, Sir Asson 
suggests Doon grant La Roche as a fief to his son, much to the an­
ger of Tomile and Audegour, who vehemently protest. They start a 
Phase 0: King Pepin


